<32:19>
Well, thank you, Mr. President. Want to talk about a couple things today a little bit different than I’ve spoken about before. Since early March, we’ve really been focusing on two key concepts for testing. Number one, to assure and expand supplies in the U.S. market. This is really critical because we were talking about really a cottage industry with very minimal suppliers that we were asking to supply over a two-week period of time the normal production that would be for at least a year. As simple as a swab is, a swab is not a swab is not a swab, and we need to be very careful that when we put something in a person and tell them a test result that it’s really correct.
<33:01>
The second component is to secure sufficient supplies at FEMA during this time of peak disease where we could alleviate any maldistributions within the state. This is the theme of process of requesting and sending things out and also supporting outbreaks.
<33:16>
So, starting many weeks ago, starting in my office many weeks ago, we assembled a multidisciplinary team of really incredible people. The medical side of the equation, which I represent, the laboratory side of the equation, high-tech side of the equation, logistics and operation and Brad Smith, his day job is Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, an incredibly important component of our country’s CMS system, building the future healthcare system, but has done a really incredible job operationally and logistically in bringing everyone together.
<33:52>
We have focused on every piece of the supply chain that relates to testing down to the most minute detail and he’s going to talk to you about some of that, but that started in the second week of March with starting an air lift because the only supplier, the main supplier of swabs at that time was a place in Italy that was completely shut off because of the outbreak in Italy. So, Admiral Polowczyk arranged gray tail Air Force planes to go to Italy to bring millions of swabs back to secure. That’s just how it started and it’s expanded since then.
<34:22>
The second part is we’ve been really marrying, and this has been the beauty, the logistics and supplies to the overall strategy, two pieces of strategy. Number one, what is the overall testing strategy? Dr. Birx has had just an elegant strategy in the past, but even more important in the future when we make sure we take care of indigent populations and those most vulnerable. So the clinical, the contact tracing and the monitoring of those who are at most risk.
<34:51>
We’ve also married it to the strategy and you’ve heard more than you wanted to know about it, that a small machine that’s point-of-care is good for certain things, but it’s not going to test 5,000 people over a short period of time. So, the small machines, the medium machines and the large machines and how to contextualize them.
<35:08>
The third thing, before I give it to Brad, which is very important and it’s really critical, is coordinating the research, the epidemiology and the FDA regulatory process. Why is that so important? When we started five weeks ago, if we wanted to test this many people with the technology we had, we would have used about 80% of the strategic national stockpile in PPE just to do testing.
<35:32>
We needed an innovation. That innovation was to be able to test out of the anterior nose with a completely different kind of swab. It sounds very mundane, but if you don’t do that, you can’t get the testing to scale. That allowed us to really go to widespread testing.
<35:46>
Last week, moving to polyester swabs, which is going to open up millions of new swabs onto the market, but that’s a regulatory science and innovation step that had to co-occur with this and with that, I’m going to let Brad talk about some of the details that he has really shepherded over the past weeks in ways that have truly been amazing and incredibly impressive to me.
<57:25>
I would just agree with Dr. Birx completely. We are ready right now to enter phase one and we are ramping up all our capabilities across the board, not just to achieve what’s necessary for phase two but 2X, 3X, 4X, so that we will be absolutely over prepared when the nation is ready to go into those phases.
<01:04:17>
I think this is… I don’t think any of us knew very much about the DPA. But they’re sort of a foresight of the DPA where you force a company to do something, but there’s a second side of it which is really a hand up. The company we’re talking about, have done… Has done everything to support this effort. And they’ve ramped up production, I’m on the phone with them multiple times a day. This is the hand up. This is the government coming in and saying, “How can we help you expand your lines?” There’s no asynchrony here at all. So this is the hand up side of the DPA, which is exactly what these small American heroic companies need. They don’t need to be forced. They’re all in. Their employees are all in.
<01:05:39>
So, since I was the one who said that, let me explain where we were. So, I was getting my information, was correct information, about the actual tests that are in the marketplace. So, if you want to use those metrics, there’s been over ’40 million’ in the marketplace. But we have an end to end issue that we needed to deal with. And that’s what we’ve been dealing with, the swabs, the transport media… If we don’t have people utilizing the machines, the way Dr. Birx is talking about, we have some of our main platforms that are only 10% being utilized. You could have a lot of tests in the market and those are correct numbers, but if the machines aren’t utilizing them and they’re not organized at that level, then they’re not being utilized to its fullest. And that-
<01:06:28>
You would have a lot of those millions of tests already being done. I think Ambassador Birx has estimated that we have another million tests a week just on one platform. That could be done if the machines were utilized more fully.
<01:07:11>
It is the guidelines. But, I tried to be a little specific about this on Friday, and we all try to. Number one is, you need to test everyone who’s symptomatic, right? And you need to over test them, because-
<01:07:23>
We’re talking any symptoms that would be consistent with COVID, right? So… And there’s a wide range of symptoms, you want to test them and you want to over test. And we talked about the approximate metric with Ambassador Birx, fully supports because we… This is a good metric that you want to get about one positive for every 10 tests, then you know you over-sample. Second, and this is a really important part of the strategy, is because so many people are asymptomatic. There’s no way that you can test enough people to pull one asymptomatic out of 300 people in the population. So the strategy with… Ambassador Birx offered, and I talked to epidemiologist around the country, and they go, “Wow, I wish I would have thought of that.” Is to really focus on the vulnerable population where we know that the asymptomatic rate could be much higher than the rest of the population.
<01:08:15>
And we are going to be focusing, and this is what my office does during normal times, focusing on the underserved populations, particularly in inner cities and urban areas, they have a higher rate because overcrowding, they can’t telework, they’re subject to a lot of comorbid conditions. Nursing homes, we all know about nursing homes and there’s both symptomatic and asymptomatic spread. And finally, some of our indigenous populations in the Indian Health Service. So this is a very important layer that most of the models and people don’t talk about, because that’s where we’re going to pick up the asymptomatic carrier tune. When you do that, that’s when you focus on track and trace.
<01:09:02>
I don’t know what the Governor of Maryland is doing in South Korea, but there is excess capacity every day. If he wanted to send 30 or 40,000 tests to LabCorps and Quest, that could be done, that could be done tomorrow.
<01:09:22>
I think we’re seeing all across the country that in the states that have been hardest hit, their capacity… None of their capacity… They’re testing far exceeds South Korea, and they’ve been able to do that on a relatively straightforward basis. I don’t know what the Governor of Maryland… We talked to him today, he didn’t bring that up today.
<01:09:41>
We were on the governor’s call today?
