<01:31:24>
Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, just a few hours ago, I had the opportunity to get on a telephone call with the people who are on the front lines, the people who are actually in the ICUs or in the hospitals from all of the areas that are being hardly hit, including New York.
<01:31:46>
I’m not a supply person. I’m a physician, a scientist. I do vaccines and I do drugs, but I am a member of the task force, and I do take very seriously the responsibility that we have to those individuals to get them the material that they need. We’ve heard discussions about the ventilators, personal protective equipment, masks, and things like that.
<01:32:05>
They are doing an amazing job up there, and I just want to have a message to them, which I told them over the phone, that, as a member of the task force, with my colleagues here, we’re going to do everything we can to make sure that they get everything they need at the time that they need that, because they are doing an amazing job up there, and I salute them. Thank you.
<01:36:00>
Well, this is truly an unprecedented situation that we’re going through. As you mentioned correctly, John, I have been through everything from the very beginning of the very uncertain days with HIV/AIDS. Cumulatively, if you look at what’s happened with HIV/AIDS over the 37 and a half, 38 years that we’ve had it, the burden and the suffering and the death has been enormous, historic, but it came over a period of time. There was the fright in the beginning.
<01:36:31>
What we’re seeing now, in actual, real time, is something that’s unprecedented. This is something that we have never seen before, at least in our generation. They’ve seen something maybe like this back 100 years ago, and we’re really being challenged to not only learn in real time, to be able to respond in a way that is helpful and effective, but we’re also in uncharted waters. I think that’s the thing that I find different, is that the waters are uncharted so that it isn’t as if we have an example of how to do it. We have an extraordinary confrontation on the health and the welfare of the globe, particularly for us here in the United States. So as somebody who has been through all of those outbreaks, this truly is unprecedented. So from the first day to now, the first death, we’ve been through something that no one has ever experienced in our generation.
