<15:34>
Let me start by thanking you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President for your decisive leadership in this unprecedented battle to save American lives. At the Department of Justice we’re working hard to protect the health and safety of our personnel, while at the same time keeping our enforcement efforts at full throttle, so I’d like to thank all of my colleagues in law enforcement, not just those at the federal level, but of all our state and local partners, the police officers, the Sheriff’s deputies who are protecting and serving their communities, often at great risk to themselves.
<16:16>
What I’d like to do here is start with a few remarks about the order that the president mentioned to ensure the availability of critical medical and health supplies from hoarding and price gouging. On March 18th, the president issued Executive Order 13-9-0-9 invoking the Defense Production Act with respect to the health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of COVID19, including PPE and ventilators. We have started to see some evidence of potential hoarding and price gouging, and so earlier today the president signed a second executive order providing the authority to address, if it becomes necessary, hoarding that threatens the supply of those necessary health and medical resources. Under Section 1-0-2 of the Defense Production act, the president is authorized to prohibit the hoarding of needed resources by designating those materials as scarce or as materials whose supply would be threatened by persons accumulating excessive amounts. Once specific materials are so designated, persons are prohibited from accumulating those items in excess of reasonable personal or business needs, or for the purpose of selling them in excess of prevailing market prices. It is a crime to engage in prohibited activity.
<17:55>
In today’s executive order the president is delegating to the secretary of HHS this authority to protect against hoarding by designating these critical items. Now, no items have been designated yet, and the Department of Justice is going to be working with HHS to identify cases where a hoarding may be impeding the supply of health and medical resources needed to respond to the COVID19 pandemic. Today we convened our first task force meeting, a national task force that will be working on these supply chain issues, and specifically on the problem of hoarding and price gouging, and we are designating in each of our 93 United State’s attorney’s offices a lead prosecutor who will be responsible in that district for pursuing these cases. I also want to say that we have not waited for this order to be signed. We, as we have received evidence recently, we have already initiated investigations of activities that are disrupting the supply chain and suggestive of hoarding.
<19:09>
I want to stress that we’re not talking about consumers or businesses stockpiling supplies for their own operations, we’re talking about people hording these goods and materials on an industrial scale for the purpose of manipulating the market and ultimately deriving windfall profits. If you are, have a big supply of toilet paper in your house, this is not something you have to worry about, but if you are sitting on a warehouse with masks, surgical masks, you will be hearing a knock on your door. So with that, Mr, President, I’ll turn it back to you.
