<08:31>
Thank you, Mr. President, thanks for your decisive leadership as we confront this unprecedented challenge posed by coronavirus. And I’d like to thank you for your support for this important initiative and thank all of the, Secretary of Defense and all the services for taking on this important initiative. Obviously during this crisis, we’re all focused above all else on COVID-19 but at the same time, our law enforcement and national security work must go forward protecting the American people from the full array of threats. For the Department of Justice, one of our highest priorities must remain destroying the Mexican cartels. Their trafficking is largely responsible for the deaths, as we all know now, of 70,000 Americans a year. And also the cost of this don’t count the destroyed families, the destroyed lives, the draining of our national treasure as state budgets are crushed by the burden that this narcotic trafficking causes.
<09:45>
The President has made clear that we are in this fight against the cartels to win and that we are not interested in half-measures. And that the threat posed by the cartel is not just a law enforcement threat, but a national security threat as well. And in December, building on your success with the Mexican president and forging a cooperative relationship in the area of immigration, you asked me to go down and meet with the President Lopez Obrador and our Mexican counterparts to see if we could also establish a more comprehensive and coordinated effort with the Mexicans in confronting the cartels. And we’ve had some successful visits and discussions and currently have an array of activities underway against the cartels and we anticipate along with the Mexicans that these are going to bear fruit in the months ahead.
<10:45>
But it quickly became clear that we can obtain the most immediate results, the best bang for the buck, where we increase the assets involved in interdiction on both the Pacific and Atlantic side of Mexico in the Central American countries. For years, the cartels have been using these sea routes to take the cocaine up from principally Columbia, now also out of Venezuela. And these sea routes on both coasts have become the primary means of bringing cocaine up to the United States. Because of the superb work done by the Defense Department and our intelligence community, we know exactly most of the time where these traffickers are at sea. But we’re significantly have been up til now, significantly limited in our ability to interdict because of the numbers of the assets we have deployed.
<11:45>
Prior today, this limitation meant we could only intercept the fraction of the traffickers and the various boats that were detected. This will now double our capacity and we are talking about hundreds of tons of cocaine we’re now in a position to seize. So this is going to radically improve our interdiction efforts and put tremendous pressure we think on the cartels. And the effort that SOUTHCOM is undertaking is going to save lives by taking drugs off the street. Last week, I announced the unsealing of charges of narco terrorism drug trafficking and other crimes against the former Maduro regime, 16 members of that regime and their involvement in trafficking of 250 metric tons a year. A lot of that comes by sea, as I discussed at that time, but also because of the pressure we’re applying by our sea interdiction. They are trying to establish an air route out of Venezuela up into Central America, which is one of the reasons we’re trying to move firmly against that corrupt regime.
<12:59>
You know, this drug war has gone on for many decades and at times in the past we’ve had great success and great results and at times we’ve taken our eye off the ball. Fortunately not in this administration, and I’m grateful that you, Mr. President, have brought focus to this fight and the determination to use whatever tools are necessary to win the fight. The cartels have to be defeated both for the people of this country and for the people of Mexico and Venezuela. So I’d like to thank you again, Mr. President, Secretary Esper for providing the wherewithal required to help win this war against the cartels and others who seek to send elicit drugs into our country. And with that, I’d like to introduce Ambassador O’Brien.
Robert O’Brien: <13:50>
Thank you, General, thank you, Mr. President. Today’s action is another example of the bold leadership of President Trump and his commitment to protecting the homeland against threats that seek to destabilize the United States and our Western hemisphere. The uncontrolled flow of illegal drugs into the United States poisons our communities, fuels the dangerous epidemic, an epidemic of addiction and threatens the safety and security of all Americans. The impressive U.S. Navy Coast Guard, Army, Marine Corps, Air Force and inter-agency operation will address a range of threats to our national security posed by narco traffickers and narco terrorists. It will reduce list financial support for drug trafficking that provides the corrupt Maduro regime in Venezuela and other bad actors with the funds necessary to conduct their malign activities. Under President Trump’s leadership, we will continue to execute our maximum pressure policy to counter the Maduro regimes, malign activities including drug trafficking. And this operation will help to choke off the funds that go to that corrupt regime.
Robert O’Brien: <14:55>
Maduro, narco terrorists and criminals should make no mistake that even as we are working around the clock to fight the spread of coronavirus, we will continue to execute the President’s counter narcotic strategy. We’re working on a number of important national security priorities as we face this public health crisis. The United States will continue to combat disinformation and fake news about this virus. We will work with the world’s largest oil producers to address volatility in global oil markets. We will always protect our servicemen and servicewomen around the world, including in Iraq and Afghanistan. I want the American people to know that President Trump and Vice President Pence and their administration are working tirelessly every day to protect the health and wellbeing of Americans and respond to the coronavirus. Our adversaries should take note however, this President has a clear-eyed focus on America’s national security interest. And let me be clear, it would be a mistake, a mistake with terrible consequences for any adversary to attempt to do us harm during this health crisis or ever for that matter. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
