<23:26>
Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President for allowing me to be a part of this event. Being accessible and responsive to our customers is what community bankers do. I’m proud to wear the title of a community banker. I’m also proud to represent Community Spirit Bank. Discovered in 1908, we have a lot of history of serving our customers through good times and bad. We come to you with a rural perspective. We are a 150 million dollar institution serving four rural counties in Northeast Mississippi and Northwest Alabama. Our bank, our banks across the country have been working proactively with our customers for weeks, relying on accommodating <inaudible 00:24:07> our consumers and small business owners. We make sure that our customer’s priority is on their health and that of their families. We’ll worry about taking care of the loans <inaudible 00:24:21> community banks does across the country.
<24:26>
Mr. President, community bankers and mainstream customers that we serve are so thankful for your leadership in passage of the CARES Act. In particular, the payroll protection program. My bankers <Inaudible 00:24:37> until Sunday night. We worked through the weekend submitting applications <inaudible 00:24:44>. As soon as we gained access, we started submitting those loans. As a matter of fact, I was up three nights up to 2:00 AM, submitting loans to get the money flowing. As of today, we’ve made approval for loans as small as $7, 000, and our average loan size is around $82,000. This is real money that’s about to get flowed back to small businesses and their employees.
<25:07>
Mr. President, I know that you are problem solving. No challenge is too big for your leadership. That’s why I also want you to know that many of my community bank friends do remain on the outside looking in, unable to gain access to the SBA E-Tran system. I ask you to employ the resources to get every community bank in this country, in this district. Why? Because Mr. President, community banks represent the only banking presence in one third of all US counties <inaudible 00:25:39> small business owners. I’m confident if we can unleash the full power of those community banks including the one third listed in a recent survey <inaudible 00:25:49> are unable to gain access to the systems, small businesses will be restored, communication will be restored, and our communities can begin to restore and begin flourishing again. Mr. President, I thank you and your administration for what you’re doing during this crisis. I pray for you daily. I pray for your administration and for both my fellow Community bankers and small businesses that may suffer. Thank you for allowing me to be a part today.
