<00:00>
The question was, what else could we do to <inaudible 00:00:03> the small businesses? One of the programs that we announced late last week was to work with a group called Community of Financial Institutions, CFI so called. We had two things there. We’re one of the largest supporters of these organizations, which banks loans in the communities throughout the United States. We gave them 10 million dollars in needed operated funds, so they could scale their business to help make loans. Then we added 250 million dollars to our 1.5 billion dollar outstanding in capital for these enterprises, bringing our capital commitment to 1.75 billion. When we moved to the PPP, secretary <inaudible 00:00:36> and I have had many conversations, as our colleagues have, to get this program up and running. From a start Friday morning around 9:30 or 9:45, whenever it was. We were up to about 250000 applications in our company. We are beginning to process those through to the SBA. It will take about <inaudible 00:00:53> which the SBA team is working hard to get set up because when this starts coming, it’s coming a lot of volume.
<00:59>
We have 3000 people working to make sure the customers that we serve have the documents needed to insure they use the proceeds in the right way at the right purpose, at the right amounts. We’re putting that all through and we thank both the SBA and the treasury to how they worked on the program and streamlined it so we could actually get it done faster. The numbers you gave before I don’t think conclude for us a <inaudible 00:01:24> amount of loans. <inaudible 00:01:26> we continue to get several thousand applications every hour. We’re not yet to the second part of the program, which we spoke about earlier in the sole proprietors and the extension. We are prioritizing our work to make sure we serve the clients who have lending relationship with us and a deposit relationship with us. That’s keeping us plenty busy, but we’re her to continue to support this effort. It is a strong effort and we also are ensuring our clients to understand the commitment they’re making to use these funds for the right purposes to keep the employment in America as high as we possibly can during this difficult time.
<02:19>
Thank you Mr. President.
