<04:25>
Thank you very much. I had a very good telephone conversation, extremely good with Senator Schumer a little while ago. We’re working on various elements of the deal and the Democrats are very much wanting something to happen and the Republicans likewise are very much wanting something to happen. And I think it will. I spoke at length with Mitch McConnell and there’s tremendous spirit to get something done, so we’ll see what happens. But my conversation was very good with Senator Schumer. I thank you all for joining us and I’d like to begin by providing an update on what we are doing to minimize the impact of the Chinese virus on our nations students. With many schools closed due to the virus, the Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing requirements. Very importantly for students in elementary through high school, for the current year. They’ve been through a lot.
<05:26>
They’ve been going back and forth, schools open, schools not open. It’s been all standardized testing and we’re not going to be enforcing that. So I think you can let the people know. I think probably a lot of the students would be extremely happy. Some probably not. The ones that work hard, maybe not, but it’s one of those things. Unfortunately, very unfortunate circumstance. We’ve also temporarily waived all interest on federally held student loans. There’ll be very happy to hear that. And I’ve instructed them to take that action immediately. And today, Secretary DeVos has directed federal lenders to allow borrowers to suspend their student loans and loan payments without penalty for at least the next 60 days. And if we need more, we’ll extend that period of time. Borrowers should contact their lenders, but we’ve given them very strong instruction so we’ve temporarily waved all interest on federally held student loans.
<06:29>
That’s a big thing. That’s going to make a lot of students very happy. And we have more to come on student loans. More good news for the students, but we’ll do that at a different time. This morning the Treasury Department also announced that we’re moving tax day from April 15th to July 15th. So we’re moving it out to July 15th so that people will have time and people will be able to, hopefully by that time we’ll have people getting back to their lives. Families and businesses will have this extra time to file with no interest or penalties. We’re getting rid of interest and penalties. However, if you have refunds or credits you’d like to claim, you may still file. In other words, you can file early if you are owed money by the IRS. Other than that, we’re moving it all the way out to July 15th. No interest, no penalties.
<07:23>
Your new date will be July 15th. Today, our team will also provide an update on our continuing effort to prevent the transmission of virus across America’s borders. And I watched what’s been happening in California with Governor Newsome and this morning with Governor Cuomo, and I applaud them. They’re taking very strong bold steps and I applaud them. And we’re all working together. We’re working very closely together, including those two governors. But, I would say based on the call, the media was there. I think we can say that with respect to virtually every governor in that call, I think every governor, we had almost all of them, if not all of them. And I would say that you could see for yourselves that the level of respect and <inaudible 00:08:14> core working together was extraordinary. There was nobody angry, nobody upset. We’re able to help them and that’s what we’re all about.
<08:23>
We want to help. We’re doing things that a lot of people wouldn’t be able to do. But the relationship with governors in states is I think very extraordinary, especially under the circumstances where this just came upon us. We’re working with Canada and Mexico to prevent the spread of the virus across North America very closely. You heard what we did yesterday with Canada and Secretary of State Pompeo will be making a statement in a little while having to do with Mexico and the border. And Chad, likewise, Chad Wolf will likewise be making a statement. There’s a joint comprehensive effort in collaboration with our neighbors. The measure and all of those measures that we’re putting in place will protect the health of all three nations and reduce the incentive for a mass global migration that would badly deplete the healthcare resources needed for our people. And so we are working very closely with Mexico. Very, very closely with Canada and the relationship’s never been better.
<09:34>
We’re all working for the same, toward the same goal. Our nation’s top healthcare officials are extremely concerned about the great public health consequences of mass, uncontrolled cross border movement. And that would be mostly, and even beyond, but mostly during this global pandemic. Every week our boarder agents encounter thousands of unscreened, unvetted and unauthorized entries from dozens of countries. And we’ve had this problem for decades. For decades. You know the story. But now it’s with the national emergencies and all of the other things that we’ve declared, we can actually do something about it. We’re taking a very strong hold of that. And we have before, but this is now at a level that nobody’s ever approached. In normal times these massive flows place a vast burden on our healthcare system, but during a global pandemic, they threaten to create a perfect storm that would spread the infection to our border agents, migrants, and to the public at large.
<10:41>
Left unchecked, this would cripple our immigration system, overwhelm our healthcare system, and severely damage our national security. We’re not going to let that happen. So we have a lot of information and they’ll be discussing that in a moment. To confront these public health degrees, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided to exercise its authority under the Title 42 of the US Code to give customs and border protection the tools it needs to prevent the transmission of the virus coming through both the Northern and the Southern border. So we’re treating the borders equally. The Northern border and the Southern border. They’re both being treated equally. A lot of people say that they’re not treated equally. Well, they are. As we did with Canada, we’re also working with Mexico to implement new rules at our ports of entry to suspend non-essential travel. These new rules and procedures will not impede lawful trade and commerce.
<11:45>
Furthermore, Mexico is taking action to secure our own Southern border and suspend air travel from Europe. So we’re coordinating very closely, the air travel going to Mexico and then trying to come into the United States. The actions we’re taking together with our North American partners will save countless lives. At the conclusion of my remarks, Secretary Azar, Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Wolf, we’re going to be also taking some questions with Tony and Deborah, who you’ve gotten to know very well. But, there’ll be discussing certain things and I think you’ll find them of great interest. We’re going to be providing tremendous amounts of detail over the coming days, but a lot of it will be provided right now, if you’d like to find out about it. There’s been a week of resolute action, tremendous action, tremendous relationships have developed with people that frankly didn’t get along. People that didn’t like each other.
<12:49>
They’re now working together and maybe even in some cases learning about each other and liking each other. It’s a nice thing. I invoked the Defense Production Act and last night we put it into gear. We moved the National Response Coordination Center to the highest level of activity. I mean, if you take a look at what we did, the level of activation has been increased to a grade one level, which is the highest level. We’re providing historic support to small businesses and to the states. The states need support. Normally, they’d this themselves, but because of the magnitude of it, the federal government has gotten very much involved in terms of getting the equipment they need. So we’re helping them. It’s a responsibility they have, but we are helping the states a lot. That’s why the governors, I think in every case, have been impressed and very nice.
<13:49>
We enacted legislation guaranteeing paid sick leave for workers at no cost to employers. And I think it’s very important, so they get paid sick leave at no cost to employers. We’re accelerating the use of new drug treatments. We’re advancing legislation to give direct payments to hardworking families. Throughout our country Americans from all walks of life are rallying together to defeat the unseen enemy striking our nation. In times of struggle, we see the true greatness of the American character. And we are seeing that. A lot of people are talking about it. We’re at 141 countries from what they’re telling me, and some of those countries, they’re really working in a unified manner and they’re working very unified with us. Almost, I could say, a good number of them. Doctors and nurses are working nonstop to heal the sick citizens. And churches are delivering meals to the needy.
<14:48>
Truckers are making the long haul to keep shelves stocked. We’ve been dealing with the big stores and the big chains, Walmart, they’ve been fantastic and others, they’ve all been fantastic. We’ve made it much easier for them to stock in terms of travel and travel restrictions. We’re lifting restrictions so they can get their trucks on time. You’re seeing very few empty shelves and yet the amount of volume that they’re doing is unprecedented because people want to have what they have to have, what they feel they have to have. And they’re also buying in slightly smaller quantities, which is good, because we’re not going anywhere. We’re going to be here. So I want to thank all of those very great companies for working so well. Americans from every walk of life are coming together and thanks to the spirit of our people, we will win this war and we are, we’re winning and we’re going to win this war.
<15:42>
America will triumph. And America will rise higher than ever before. We’ll be stronger than ever before. And we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot about relying on other countries. And I can say that I think in both a very good and a very bad way. Some good things came out of it and some not so good things came out of it. So I’d like to move now to invite our team to provide information on the new measures to prevent viral spread at our borders. And I’ll start by asking Secretary of State Pompeo to speak. He’s doing a fantastic job. And like everyone else, he’s been working very, very long and very, very hard, and he’s doing the other more normal jobs of a great Secretary of State. But, he got tied into this like everybody else and he’s been really doing a fantastic job. Mike, please.
<20:04>
Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. And we’ll take questions right after this. Chad Wolf.
<24:00>
Thank you. Thank very much, Chad. Thank you. Secretary.
<27:18>
Thank you very much. <inaudible 00:27:22> Tony or Deb?
<30:17>
Thank you very much. Tony? Good.
<32:14>
Thank you, Tony. Mike?
<38:14>
Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you.
<38:19>
Go ahead.
<38:32>
It is. I did it yesterday. We invoked it, I think, the day before. We signed it the evening of the day before, and voted yesterday. We have a lot of people working very hard to do ventilators and various other things, yes.
<38:49>
We are. For certain things that we need, including some of the very important emergency … I would say ventilators, probably more masks, to a large extent. We have millions of masks which are coming, and which will be distributed to the states. The states are having a hard time getting them, so we’re using the act. The act is very good for things like this. We have millions of masks that we’ve ordered. They will be here soon. We’re having them shipped directly to states.
<39:26>
No, it’s no different other than we need certain equipment that the states are unable to get by themselves, so we’re invoking it to use the powers of the federal government to help the states get things that they need like the masks, like the ventilators. Yes, <Steve 00:14:42>?
<39:50>
I don’t think so. Essentially you’ve done that in California, you’ve done that in New York. Those are really two hotbeds. Those are probably the two hottest of them all in terms of hotspots. I don’t think so, because you go out to the Midwest, you go out to other locations, and they’re watching it on television, but they don’t have the same problems. They don’t have by any means the same problem.
<40:12>
New York, California. Miami, the governor’s doing an excellent job, Governor DeSantis in Florida. We have some pretty hot spots in Florida too, and the state of Washington, of course. But that was largely, if you look at it, it was one nursing home that had problems like you wouldn’t believe.
<40:31>
No, we’re working with the governors. I don’t think we’ll ever find that necessary.
<40:41>
I am happy. I am happy with it. We’ll have to see what the results are at the end of 14 days, let’s say. We’ll know by the 15th day, to see what we do.
<40:50>
I’m certainly honored by the way the American people are working, because it’s work. It’s work not to work. This is the first time this has ever happened. We’re working on a tremendous financial package for them so they don’t work. Whoever heard of this? Usually you work out a financial package to get people working. We’re asking people not to work. Social distancing, that new term that’s become probably the hottest term there is. No, I’m very honored by the way the American people are are taking this so seriously. Yes, <Jim 00:00:41:23>?
<41:39>
I think that really all of that is being discussed right now. We talked about, as an example, stock buybacks. I don’t want to have stock buybacks. I don’t want some executive saying, “We’re going to buy 200,000 shares of stock.” I want that money to be used for the workers, and also for the company to keep the company going, but not for buybacks. I haven’t spoken to a lot of the Republicans or Democrats on it. We discussed it. I don’t like buybacks. I didn’t like them the first time.
<42:12>
We’re discussing that. We’re discussing many things.
<42:16>
We’re not so far away. I’ll tell you, we’re not very far away.
<43:18>
I think, without seeing too much, I’m probably more of a fan of that, maybe, than anybody. I’m a big fan, and we’ll see what happens. We all understand what the doctor said is 100% correct. It’s early, but I’ve seen things that are impressive. We’ll see. We’re going to know soon. We’re going to know soon. Including safety. When you get that safety, this has been prescribed for many years for people to combat malaria, which was a big problem, and it’s very effective. It’s a strong drug.
<43:56>
It was, as I understand that … Is that a correct statement? It was fairly effective on SARS?
<44:37>
We were ordering … Yes, we have millions of units ordered. Bayer is one of the companies, as you know, big company, very big, very great company. Millions of units are ordered. We’re going to see what happens.
<44:51>
We’re going to be talking to the governors about it, and the FDA is working on it right now. The advantage is that it has been prescribed for a totally different problem, but it has been described for many years. Everybody knows the levels of the negatives and the positives. But, I will say that I am a man that comes from a very positive school when it comes to, in particular, one of these drugs.
<45:17>
We’ll see how it works out, <Peter 00:00:45:18>. I’m not saying it will, but I think that people may be surprised. By the way, that would be a game changer. We’re going to know very soon. We have ordered millions of units. It’s being ordered from Bayer, and there is another couple of companies also that do it.
<45:42>
I think we only disagree a little bit.
<45:44>
I disagree. Maybe and maybe not. Maybe there is, maybe there isn’t. We have to see. We’re going to known soon.
<45:57>
No, I don’t think so. I think got-
<46:05>
Such a lovely question. Look, it may work, and it may not work. I agree with the doctor, what he said. May work, may not work. I feel good about it. That’s all it is. Just a feeling. I’m a smart guy. I feel good about it. We’re going to see.
<46:21>
You’re going to see soon enough. We have certainly some very big samples of people. If you look at the people, you have a lot of people that are in big trouble. This is not a drug that, obviously, I think I can speak from a lot of experience, because it’s been out there for over 20 years. It’s not a drug that you have a huge amount of danger with. It’s not a brand-new drug that’s been just created, that may have an unbelievable monumental effect like kill you. We’re going to know very soon.
<46:51>
I can tell you, the FDA’s working very hard to get it out. Right now, in terms of malaria, if you want it, you can have a prescription. You get a prescription. By the way, and it’s very effective. It works.
<47:03>
I have a feeling you may … I’m not being overly optimistic or pessimistic. I sure as hell think we ought to give it a try. There’s been some interesting things happened, and some very good things. Let’s see what happens. We have nothing to lose. You know the expression? What the hell do you have to lose?
<47:26>
John, go ahead.
<47:38>
I say that you’re a terrible reporter. That’s what I say. I think it’s a very nasty question, and I think it’s a very bad signal that you’re putting out to the American people. The American people are looking for answers and they’re looking for hope, and you’re doing sensationalism. The same with NBC and Comcast. I don’t call it Comcast, I called Concast, for who you work.
<48:01>
Let me just tell you something. That’s really bad reporting, and you ought to get back to reporting instead of sensationalism. Let’s see if it works. It might and it might not. I happen to feel good about it, but who knows? I’ve been right a lot. Let’s see what happens.
<48:18>
John?
<48:21>
You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
<50:36>
I agree.
<50:48>
My message to the American people is that there is a very low incidence of death. You understand that and we’re going to come through this stronger than ever before. If you get it, if you happen to get it, it is highly unlikely. It’s looking like it’s getting to a number. That’s much smaller than people originally thought in terms of the ultimate problem, which would be death. My message to the American people is, number one, you’ve done an incredible job, incredible what you’ve gone through. It wasn’t their fault. It wasn’t the fault of 140 other countries where this has happened and there is tremendous hope and I think we’re going to come out stronger, better, bigger in every way.
<51:35>
I think we’re going to be a better country than we were before. And we learned a lot. We learned on reliance who to rely on who not to rely on. Our country has been incredible the way they pulled together, including the fact that I just spoke to Senator Schumer. We had a wonderful conversation. We both want to get to a good solution, but it’s been a really, for me, watching and seeing people that weren’t speaking, getting along well because we all have one common aim and that’s to get rid of this invisible enemy. Get rid of it fast, and then go back to the kind of economy that we had. And maybe even better. Yeah, please in the back. No, the back, please.
<52:25>
We’re going to be helping them a lot. We’re going to be focused, a big focus and including my conversation with both Mitch and with Chuck, a big focus of that conversation with small businesses, because they are really the engine behind our country more so than the big ones. They are the engine behind our country.
<52:49>
I’m not aware of it, I saw some names. I know all of them. I know everyone mentioned Dianne Feinstein, I guess, and a couple of others. I don’t know too much about what it’s about, but I find them to all be very honorable people. That’s all I know. And they said they did nothing wrong. I find them the whole group. Very honorable people. Yeah, please.
<53:24>
Well, it also includes Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat. You didn’t mention her name. What didn’t you mention her name? And I think she’s a very honorable person by the way. So I’m not saying, but you know, it’s interesting that you mentioned two people, but you don’t mention one that happens to be a Democrat.
<53:40>
I don’t know, because I’d have to look at it possibly, but I find them to be honorable people. Yeah.
<53:59>
I do. Because I think Peter is, I’ve dealt with Peter for a long time and I think Peter is a not a good journalist when it comes to fairness.
<54:13>
I think it’s a good message because I think that the country has to understand that there is indeed whether we like it or not, and some of the people in this room won’t like it. There’s a lot of really great news and great journalism and there’s a lot of fake news out there and I hear it all and I see it all and I understand it all because I’m in the midst of it. So when somebody writes a story, or does a story on television, and I know it’s false, I know it’s fake. And when they say they have 15 sources have said, and I know there’s no sources, there’s no sources, they’re just making it up. I know that. And I call Peter out, but I call other people out too. And you know, this is a time to come together, but coming together is much harder when we have dishonest journalists. It’s a very important profession that you’re in. It’s a profession that I think is incredible. I cherish it, but when people are dishonest, they truly do hurt our country. Yeah. In the back. Please, go ahead.
<55:37>
Well, I have to say this, we have, and I can speak for myself, but I have a very good relationship with China and with President Xi. I have great respect for President Xi, I consider him to be a friend of mine. It’s unfortunate that this got out of control. It came from China, it got out of control. Some people are upset. I know President Xi, he loves China. He respects the United States and I have to say I respect China greatly and I respect President Xi.
<56:18>
No, I never liked stock buybacks from their standpoint. When we did a big tax cut and when they took the money and did buybacks, that’s not building a hangar. That’s not buying aircraft. That’s not doing the kind of things that I want them to do. And we’re now talking about buybacks. We didn’t think we would have had to restrict it because we thought they would have known better but they didn’t know better. And some cases, not in all cases, obviously some people did an incredible job. They built plants all over the country. I mean you’d see what’s happened.
<56:50>
Until this invisible enemy appeared. I mean we never had an economy like this, but there were some companies that use that money to buy back stock, driving up the price of the stock artificially in many cases. I don’t like that. I don’t like it. And as far as whether or not we’ll have that allow them when we give them money because we have to keep these great companies in business because of the workers. Frankly, for the most part because of the workers, the workers are my number one concern. But the way we take care of the workers is we have to keep the companies going. I am fine with restricting buybacks. In fact, I would demand that there’d be no stock buybacks. I don’t want them taking hundreds of millions of dollars and buying back their stock because that does nothing. Yeah, please.
<57:40>
Sure, and one thing, Secretary of State Pompeo is extremely busy. So if you have any question for him right now, could you do that? Because you know what I’d like to do? I’d like to him to go back to the state department or as they call it, the deep state department. You know, Mike. I’d like to have him go back and do his job. So does anybody have any question? Please.
<58:02>
<crosstalk 00:58:02> Yeah, how about you? Only for the secretary.
<01:00:34>
Just to put it, you know when you said before you said the non Mexicans going to Mexico, we’re not sending them to Mexico, we’re sending them back to their own country. It’s not to Mexico. Why would Mexico take people that aren’t from Mexico? We’re sending them back, in the case of Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, lot of other countries, they go back to the country from where they came. Okay. Mike, please.
<01:02:46>
Go ahead, finish up.
<01:03:25>
Maybe we shouldn’t say that.
Sec. Pompeo: <01:03:27>
So let me just get back to you on the answer to that and what-
<01:03:30>
We know plenty.
Sec. Pompeo: <01:03:30>
What we can say with certainty is, we’ve made clear all along that the Iraqi Shia militias are funded, trained, equipped by the Iranians and we’ve urged the Iranians not to do that and we’ve told the Iranians that they will be held responsible for those attacks when they threaten American lives.
<01:05:47>
They know the answer, they know the answer. Iran, the leaders. They know the answer to your question.
<01:06:19>
What a good answer. Yes, go ahead. Very true, too.
<01:07:15>
Excuse me, we’ll do that in a second. Let Mike-
Sec. Pompeo: <01:07:18>
May I just say one more thing. There’s been some discussion about China and what they knew and when they knew it, and I’ve been very critical. We need to know immediately the world is entitled to know. The Chinese government was the first to know of this risk to the world and that puts a special obligation to make sure that data, the data gets to our scientists, our professionals. This is not about retribution. This matters going forward. We’re in a live exercise here. To get this right. We need to make sure that even today the datasets that are available to every country, including datasets that are available to the Chinese communist party are made available to the whole world. It’s an imperative to keep people safe. We talk about the absence of datasets, not being able to make judgments about what to do.
Sec. Pompeo: <01:08:02>
This is absolutely, this transparency, this realtime information sharing isn’t about political games or retribution. It’s about keeping people safe. And so when you see a delay in information flowing from the Chinese communist party to the technical people who we wanted to get into China immediately to assist in this, every moment of delay connected to being able to identify this risk vectors, creates risks to the people all around the world. And so this is why it’s not about blaming someone for this. This is about moving forward to make sure that we continue to have the information we need to do our jobs.
<01:09:26>
I’ll rather have, if you could finish up with the Secretary of State-
Sec. Pompeo: <01:09:30>
I think I wore them out, Mr. President.
<01:09:30>
Is everybody finished with the Secretary of State?
<01:10:02>
Well I can just say, the entire world is agreeing with us because, they all have their choice and everybody’s doing the exact same thing. We want to shut it out and we can do that and we’ll see what happens in two weeks and three weeks. But if we can save thousands of lives and even millions of lives potentially, you don’t know where it goes, but you could be talking about millions of lives. So if you look at the the world, I mean you have some very smart people in the world. You have some smart leaders in the world and everybody’s doing it the way we’re doing it. I think we’re doing a better job than hopefully most, if not all, we’re doing a very effective job, but we’ll know better in 14 or 15 days. But you know, you’re talking about hundreds of thousands and maybe more than that numbers of people and you know, we can bring our finances back very quickly. We can’t bring the people back.
<01:11:14>
Yeah, I agree with it, but I think I’d like to have Anthony answer that because to be honest, that’s what he does and we had a lot of very talented people telling us what they think we should do.
<01:12:09>
Secretary of State will be leaving. Any other questions? Go ahead in the back, please. In the back, for Mike. <crosstalk 01:12:17> Excuse me, I didn’t call on you. Go ahead, please.
<01:12:54>
<crosstalk 01:12:54> I’m not dealing with him, I’m dealing with the governor and the governor agrees with me and I agree with him. So far we’ve been very much in sync. I guess they’re not agreeing with each other necessarily, but the relationship with New York, I love New York. I grew up in New York as you probably have heard and the relationship’s been very good and I think government and the governor have been getting along incredibly well with the federal government. Okay.
<01:14:14>
Anybody?
<01:14:28>
Well, I believe in a lot of things. I want to get workers money and whichever way, the best way to get it, and I want to keep the businesses open too, because without the businesses, they’re not going to be getting money for very long. <crosstalk 01:14:42>. If there’s not, we’ll do something later I’m sure.
<01:15:04>
We’re not talking about $1,000 check. We’re talking about much more than that. We’re also talking about doing phases. If this doesn’t work, we’re going to keep doing until we get it going and frankly, once we get the economy back and once this enemy is defeated, the invisible enemy as I call it, once it’s defeated, we get the economy back, it’s going to all come back to us very quickly. It comes back very quickly. We have a tremendous economy. We do numbers like no other country has ever done before.
<01:15:32>
Number one in the world, if you go back two weeks and still obviously, but if you go back two weeks, number one in the world by far. That money comes back to us very rapidly. We want to keep it. We want to have it so that when we are, not if, but when we win the war with the invisible enemy, when we win it, these companies can immediately start. Not that they have to start rebuilding, which takes a long time. Steve. <inaudible 01:15:57> Steve. I’m confident. I’m confident.
<01:16:03>
We’re looking at different numbers. We have a best case and a not best case but the big thing is to defeat the virus. Once that virus is defeated, Steve, I think everything else falls in place very rapidly. I think you’re going to have a tremendous upswing. A lot of people agree with me. If you look at your stock market geniuses and some of whom are not geniuses, but they think they are, a lot of people think that I’m right about that, that once we defeat the virus, I think you’re going to have a very steep, like a rocket ship. It’s going to go up and everything will be back and I really believe we’re going to be stronger than ever before. Go ahead.
<01:16:51>
You heard my news conference yesterday. <crosstalk 01:16:55> yesterday’s news. No, that does happen because they want to buy supplies. We want to buy as a backup to them in case they can’t and sometimes that will happen, but regardless of who gets them when they need them, we’re getting them to them. Now we’re doing the Production Act, we’re doing it very much and we have a lot of things cooking right now at a high level.
<01:17:14>
Remember this, nothing like this has ever happened before. Over 140 countries and you have supply chains that are broken down for two reasons because they can’t supply that much and because people are sick and they can’t be on the chain. So you have a lot of interesting things all over the world. You have supply chains that broke down because of the illness and also because of the fact that the quantity. But we’re getting it ordered, we’re getting it done and you just have to look. Some of you were at the call yesterday where I spoke with the governors, almost all of the governors, and every one of them was very impressed with what we’ve done. Go ahead. In the middle. <inaudible 01:17:55>
<01:18:00>
I would have to talk to them. I would have to talk to them.
<01:18:12>
So far we haven’t had to. It’s an amazing thing that happened. We’re getting calls from automobile companies. We’re getting calls from other companies saying they have plant capacity. They want to make ventilators. They want to make other things. We are literally being besieged in a beautiful way by companies that want to do the work. They want to do the job. They want to help us. They want to help our country, so we haven’t had a problem with that at all.
<01:18:46>
Well when they call us they let us know. If there’s a conflict they will call us and we will drop our bid because we want them to go first because their point, at point of sale. So we’ve had four or five instances where literally that was happening because you know we’re both trying to get stock and if we’re going against, they will call us, the smart ones frankly, will call us and we will immediately, we want them to buy it because it gets to them quicker if they buy it.
<01:19:16>
They know that and it’s happening more and more where they’re calling and they’re saying, we’re bidding against each other. They want to get it. They’ll get it much quicker that way. <crosstalk 01:19:27> Go ahead, please.
<01:19:41>
Well, it’s going very well. I tell you what.
<01:19:42>
We inherited an obsolete deal and we’ve made a good thing out of it. I haven’t heard that question in awhile, but go ahead.
<01:24:23>
When we need something because of the act. When we need something, we order something and as you know, two days ago I invoked the act, which was a big step. I’m not sure that it had been done before, certainly not very much and when we need something, we will use the act. What has happened is before we even go out, many, many companies, great companies, companies in a totally different business are willing to do things and make things because that’s what they do, they make product. They’re willing to make product for us, medical product that we need very badly for the States that the States can’t get, they haven’t been able to get. And you know most of the States in no way did they do anything wrong. They were stocked up, they were all equipped. Unfortunately they’ve never had a thing like this. So they need help from the federal government. <crosstalk 01:25:09>
<01:25:17>
I have. I have, yes.
<01:25:17>
A lot. A lot. And they’re making it a lot of ventilators and they make it a lot of masks. Go ahead, please. Go ahead.
<01:25:33>
I can’t say they are, but they will be very shortly because we’re working with one in particular, the ones to make ventilators. They called us yesterday and they’re already, we’re working on a transaction. They’re going to make ventilators. They say they’ve done it before, which surprised me, but they can do it very easily. <crosstalk 01:25:53>
<01:26:07>
No, not donate. That’s not the word, donate. He’s not giving them. He’s going to let me use them. I spoke with Micky Arison who is the president, chairman, CEO and owner. <crosstalk 01:26:19> He said to me that he was willing to, if we need ships, if we need ships for helping people, that Carnival would be absolutely willing to help us in Los Angeles, in New York, wherever they may be in Miami where they’re very big. If we needed something, they would be willing to. So far we haven’t needed to. And we’re bringing the big hospital ships up in California. We haven’t, we’re working with the governor of California as you know, with Gavin and we haven’t made a determination. We’re also talking to folks who would like it in Seattle, so where we’re discussing where it can be most useful. We’ve spoken with governor Cuomo and we’re bringing the big hospital ship up in two weeks and we’re going to have it in New York Harbor someplace in New York Harbor.
<01:27:07>
No, I haven’t taken them up on it yet. I said, if we need it, I’ll let you know. That’s called taking them up.
<01:27:10>
Right now, we don’t need it.
<01:27:24>
What I can tell you, they’re very clean and also those surfaces, the germ, as you know, the virus disappears over a period of time and these ships are very clean. They’ve been kept very clean, they’d been gone over. But the virus, as you know, if it’s on a surface for a certain, they have actually charts different kinds of surfaces, it disappears over a period of time.
<01:27:47>
What are you trying to get at? Go ahead.
<01:27:50>
It disappears. The virus disappears when it’s on surface after a certain number of days or in some cases, hours depending on the surface.
<01:28:09>
I will be, but first I want to get the approval from the company because I don’t want to be doing that. I assume they’d like it, but I’ll let you know.
<01:28:19>
One company that has openly stated it is General Motors, one of the companies, <crosstalk 01:28:25> but I didn’t speak to them about announcing it, but I’ll announce it. I’m sure they wouldn’t be. But we have others also.
<01:29:49>
We’re hearing very positive things about testing and just so you understand, we don’t want every American to go out and get a test. 350 million people. We don’t want that. We want people that have a problem, that have a problem with they’re sneezing they’re sniffling, they don’t feel good, they have a temperature. There are a lot of different things. You know them better than I do. So ready. We don’t need that. But what we are having is we’re having these private labs have come in, they’ve been really fantastic and we also have a great system for the future because as I said, we inherited, we meaning this administration an obsolete broken system that wasn’t meant for anything like this. Now we have a system that you can see because look, we’re well into this and nobody’s even talking about it, except for you, which doesn’t surprise me.
<01:30:40>
Well, okay, I’m not hearing it.
<01:30:45>
But we don’t want everybody to go out and get a test because there’s no reason for it. Yeah, we’ll do one more after this.
<01:32:05>
But I do think, and that’s after listening to Tony and everybody else that’s an expert. I do think it’s important that not everybody be tested. If you feel great and if you have no symptoms whatsoever, it’s just not a good thing to be doing. Steve.
<01:34:33>
Want to finish up? Go ahead.
<01:36:43>
Just so you know, just for the probably a hundredth time, I, this administration, inherited an obsolete broken old system that wasn’t meant for this. We discarded that system and we now have a new system that can do millions of people as you need them, but we had to get rid of a broken old system that didn’t work. It worked only on a very limited basis and we’re very proud of what we’ve done. It’s incredible what we’ve done and this system will now serve for the future, for future problems.
<01:37:21>
Hopefully you don’t have a problem like this, but something will come up. We have now a great system and it’s almost fully in gear, but it’s able to test millions of people. But we inherited a broken old, frankly, a terrible system. We fixed it and we’ve done a great job and we haven’t been given the credit that we deserve, that I can tell you. The one that really deserves the credit are the American people because they are doing things that nobody thought they would do. What they’re doing is incredible and we’re making a lot of progress and we’ll see you folks tomorrow. Thank you very much. <crosstalk 01:38:04>
