<00:24>
Thank you very much everybody, and good afternoon. Today’s Good Friday and this Sunday, millions of Christians celebrate Easter and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. At this holy time, we pray that God will heal the sick and comfort the heartbroken and bless our heroes. As American families look forward to Easter, we’re reminded that our story ends not in despair, but in triumph and renewal.
<00:58>
Very appropriate, isn’t it? I’d like to provide Americans an update on our ongoing efforts in the war against the invisible enemy. Before I do that, I’ll have a couple of notes. The United States in discussions last night with Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Russia, and in dealing with OPEC nations, we are trying to get Mexico, as the expression goes, over the barrel, and Mexico is committing to do a hundred thousand fewer barrels. President and I spoke last night, we have a great relationship, great friendship. They’re helping us very much at the border.
<01:40>
They have 27,000 soldiers, Mexican soldiers on our border right now, stopping people from coming into our country as our wall goes up. We’re up to about 168 miles of wall. And in speaking with the president, they have a limit. The OPEC nations have agreed to a different limit reduction of about 23%. So what I thought I would do, and I don’t know that it’s going to be accepted, we’ll find out, the United States will help Mexico along and they’ll reimburse us sometime at a later date when they’re prepared to do so.
<02:19>
And we had a great conversation, but we’ll find out how that all works out. As you know, they’re trying to get rid of the glut of oil. There’s a tremendous glut of oil and we don’t want anything to hurt our incredible industry, actually the largest producer in the world now. So we don’t want anything to hurt those jobs, those great jobs in Texas and North Dakota and Oklahoma and everywhere.
<02:43>
We have a tremendous energy, New Mexico, tremendous energy business, and we want to keep those jobs. So we’re working on it. I think eventually it’s going to work out, may work out quicker than what most people thought possible and maybe it won’t, but it’ll work out eventually. Our experts are monitoring the data from every part of our country having to do with the topic that we’re here to discuss.
<03:13>
In the midst of grief and pain, we’re seeing clear signs that our aggressive strategy is saving countless lives. A tremendous progress is being made. Although when you look at some of the numbers, I just spoke with Governor Cuomo, we had a good talk. When you look at those numbers, the numbers of death, people that have died, it’s so horrible. Now, on the other side, you have the numbers of beds being used. We’re just saying are substantially reduced.
<03:48>
That’s usually the sign that it’s heading in the downward curve. So New York, we know where that is, but in the midst of all this grief and this pain, we’re seeing these signs and we’re seeing them very strongly, and a lot of that has to do with the aggressive strategy in saving so many lives. We’re saving so many lives compared to what it could have been. So nobody knows what the number is, but we had a number of 100,000 lives, as many as that is, it’s impossible to even think of it. And that was the low end with a tremendous amount of work and a tremendous amount of… you can call it many different things. Our people had to be extremely strong and brave to be able to put up with what they’ve put up with. But the minimum, if you did this social distancing and every other aspect, and I think I can say 90% maybe even more than that were able to do it.
<04:55>
The minimum number was 100,000 lives and I think we’ll be substantially under that number. Hard to believe that if you had 60,000, you can never be happy, but that’s a lot fewer than we were originally told and thinking. So they said between 100,000 and 220,000 lives on the minimum side and then up to 2.2 million lives if we didn’t do anything.
<05:22>
But it showed just tremendous resolve by the people of this country. So we’ll see what it ends up being, but it looks like we’re headed to a number of substantially below the 100,000 that would be the low mark and I hope that bears out. The situation in Detroit and New Orleans appears to be stabilizing. Detroit is really started to go up and now it is stabilizing and New Orleans is a great place. I have so many friends there. They can’t believe what’s happening, but it’s really stabilized.
<05:58>
I spoke with the governor of Louisiana and as you know, we’re building them additional beds right now, the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. And that is going to be done and I hope they’re not going to be very well used because I think they’ve really… I don’t think they’re going to need them or certainly not very many of them. We built them a big hospital of a thousand beds and now we’re in the midst of doing another thousand. I don’t think they’re going to be using very many of them and that’s a good thing.
<06:29>
There was a time, two weeks ago when we said, that’s not going to be nearly enough. We’re going to have to build more, but we wanted to wait to see, and I’m glad we waited. It just looks like they’re doing really well. Louisiana and state of Michigan is doing really much better than we thought. In Washington State, we’ve made enough progress that the governor’s now able to return an army field hospital, so we’re going to take that hospital. We don’t think we need any more hospitals. We built thousands of beds all over the country and we think we’re probably not going to need that hospital anywhere.
<07:07>
If we do, we’re ready to move it to a different location. In New York, we’re seeing hospital admissions declining very substantially. As I said in nationwide, the number of new cases per day is flattening, substantially suggesting that we’re near the peak and our comprehensive strategy is working. Over time, our guidelines to slow the spread are decreasing the rate of new cases very substantially and will result in fewer hospital admissions and we’re seeing that. It’s incredible.
<07:39>
I think with no exceptions, it’s looking like it’s lower. And again that’s because of the people doing what they had to do. Great people and working with elected representatives and the doctors, the nurses and everybody. I mean just everybody has been so amazing.
<08:04>
I was told this morning again, please mention all of those people working in the grocery stores and it’s true, the checkouts and the clerks and the people that are really… and a number of those people have become infected. So we want to thank them and a shout out to them. With the tireless devotion of American doctors and nurses and all of the medical people, we’ve kept our fatality rate very, very low compared to other countries.
<08:35>
My administration’s closely monitoring the data on the viruses impact on our cherished African American communities because they’ve been hit hard and the surgeon general will be sharing more of that information right after we’re finished here. He’ll be coming up and saying exactly what’s happening because it’s really, it’s very troublesome I will tell you that. I’d also like to provide clarity on the important point for many Americans on elective surgeries. Well, we’ve asked hospitals to cancel surgeries and procedures that do not take place at this time, just not to do them now.
<09:15>
The choice to delay any treatment still remains between the patient and their doctor. We’re not advising Americans to postpone medical treatment that their doctor believes should occur now, so it’s different kinds of surgery obviously, but we’re really getting to the point where you can start to think about doing that surgery if necessary, pretty soon, I think pretty soon.
<09:39>
Yesterday I directed Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue to expedite aid to American farmers and Secretary Perdue will be using all of the tools at his disposal to develop a program and very quickly of at least $16 billion to provide relief for farmers, ranchers, and producers impacted by the coronavirus. In this time of crisis, we must keep our supply chains moving from the beginning, right from beginning to end and we’re committed to supporting the amazing men and women who produce supply. I did last night a statement on social media and I said, “I have directed Secretary Sonny Perdue to expedite, help to our farmers, especially to the smaller farmers who are very, very badly hurting right now.
<10:31>
I expect Secretary Perdue to use all of the funds and authorities at his disposal to make sure that our food supply is stable and safe and our great farmers are prosperous and continue to be prosperous. We’re working very hard to make sure our food supply chain is sound and plentiful, but we all know that that begins with our farmers, cattlemen, ranchers and producers.”
<10:56>
So we’re going to be working with these small farmers, the big farmers, the cattlemen, the ranchers, all of the producers. We’re going to take care of them. We’re working with them right now. We have a lot of money that was put there through our use of tariffs and other means and we’re going to help out our farmers. And I don’t think… I’ll tell you, I’ve been helping our farmers for a couple of years because they were targeted as you know, by China and others and I think they’re very grateful for what we’ve done. On the medical front, the FDA has issued 47 emergency use authorizations for advancements and testing, new ventilator designs, innovations and personal protective equipment and experimental medicines. And Dr. Hahn’s going to be talking about that. We’ve cut through the red tape to give doctors and patients unprecedented freedom to make their own healthcare decisions, granting access to potential therapies and drugs. Since Monday, we’ve deployed two major shipments of Hydroxychloroquine from our national stockpile and it’s going to various cities. And we are also disposing and getting as quickly as we can, portions of it to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. And speaking of the Department of Defense, they’re going to be sending us 10,000,095 masks that they had and we’re in great shape in every way. We’re in great shape with ventilators. We’re in great shape with protective clothing. We have additional plane loads coming in, but we’re not getting any calls from governors at this moment. I can speak, I think for Vice President Pence will be talking in a little while.
<12:48>
We’re getting very few calls from governors or anybody else needing anything. They’re in great shape for this surge that’s coming in, certain areas in particular and that’s a good job. You’ve done a great job on that, Mike, really a great job. I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it.
<13:06>
More than 2 million coronavirus tests have now been completed and we’re conducting approximately 100,000 more every day. We’re also working to bring blood-based Serology tests to the market as quickly as possible so that Americans can determine whether or not they have already had the virus and potentially have immunity. They have immunity if they’ve had the virus. A lot of them don’t even know if they’ve added. Sometimes it’s brutal. You see the Prime Minister seems to be doing well now I hope, he had a rough go of it and still is, but he’s doing better.
<13:43>
And then some people don’t even know they had it. It could be sniffles, it could be they don’t feel perfect, but they’ve had it and they’re the lucky ones. The NIH, CDC and FDA are currently validating these antibody tests to ensure that they’re accurate and they’re doing that at breakneck speed. I think we can say that doctor, and we’re going to get them approved very quickly, Dr. Hahns.
<14:09>
When validated, we’re confident that the production will scale up to tens of millions of tests very quickly. We are leading the world now in testing by far and we’re going to keep it that way. Other countries are coming to us and they’re wanting to know about our tests and can they buy the tests and can they do whatever they have to do to get the test. And we’re going to make that very soon. We’ll be in a position to make that possible because it’s important for them to have it.
<14:38>
And we’re going to have an announcement on the World Health Organization sometime next week. As you know, we given them approximately $500 million a year and we’re going to be talking about that subject next week. We’ll have a lot to say about it. We’ll hold it. Every American should be proud of what our country is achieved in just a short period of time. The US Military has deployed thousands of personnel to build 23 temporary hospitals with more than 16,000 beds. And we have the potential to build many more if we needed them. We’re all ready to go, but I don’t think we’re going to need them, which is great. Great news. And we built those hospitals in 12 states and the District of Columbia using the Defense Production Act and we used it like a hammer. A lot of the media said, “Oh, we weren’t using it.”
<15:30>
We used it like a hammer to a point where all we had to do is say the words and everybody gave us max and they’ve done a good job. They really have done a good job with few exceptions. And we’ve harnessed the full power of American industry to produce ventilators and other essential supplies. Right now we’re making thousands of ventilators, many of which we won’t need, but we’ll use them in our stockpile and we’ll build that up. We’ll also help build up the stockpiles, which they should have had in the states.
<16:04>
And so we’re working with governors on that and we’ll also help other countries or countries that are calling us for help. They need ventilators and there are no position to build ventilators. We are, we have Ford and General Motors and many, many companies are building ventilators. So we’re going to be helping at a not too distant point, we’re going to be helping quite a few of the countries.
<16:29>
Now we’ve launched Project Airbridge to deliver nearly 300 million pieces of personal protective equipment from and around the globe. We’re also shipping out 60 sterilization systems to 10 different cities that can each sterilize up to 80,000 masks each day and I’m even hearing it can go up to 120,000 masks a day, certain equipment with certain additions. It’s a company in Ohio that makes it, it’s a great company. Great, I hear it’s a great product. Works very well. I asked that question. I said, “How come we have to buy so many masks? Why can’t we sterilize the masks that are being used?” And the answer was, you can. In this case, they say up to 20 times, so we can take a mask, certain types of masks, the N95s in particular, we can sterilize them, make them very clean up to 20 times. That’s a great thing.
<17:22>
In addition, we passed the largest Emergency Economic Relief Package in American history to save the US economy and protect the American worker. As you know, this past week, which was four active days on the stock market, Good Friday today is not included, the markets are closed. In four days, we had the biggest market increase, stock market increase that we’ve had in 50 years. That tells you that there’s a pent up demand, that tells you they want to get back. There’s something good going to happen. I really believe that, there’s something very good going to happen. We have to get back.
<17:59>
So think of it in this horrible period, this horrible, dark period where this monster came in and worked it’s horrible, horrible spell over the world. 184 countries as of this morning, 184 countries. We’ve done well and I guess the market thinks we’ve done well because we had the biggest stock market increase without one day.
<18:28>
We’re talking four days instead of five that we’ve had in 50 years, 50 years. Think of that, more than 50 years actually. In short, the American people have launched the greatest mobilization of our society since World War II, deploying every scientific, governmental, medical, and military resource to defeat the virus. So I want to just start then with, we’re going to answer questions later. We’ll have time, if we have a lot of time today. A lot of people are off as they should be, Good Friday, but so I’ll stick around. We’ll answer questions later. I want to start with Deborah Birx, please. Dr. Birx and you can go over some of the numbers we just looked at and that’d be great. Thank you very much, Deborah.
<22:59>
Thank you very much, Deborah. Tony, doctor, please.
<33:15>
Thank you very much. Good job, thank you. Mike, please.
<39:20>
Great job. Thank you. Okay. It’s Good Friday. Let’s be nice. Okay, let’s be real nice. Yeah, please go ahead.
<39:39>
All of the OPEC nations met and others and they’re all agreeing to cut back because there’s a tremendous glut. We don’t even… We’re filling up our strategic reserves. We don’t even have room to store it and in fact they are using ships to store oil. There’s never been anything like this. It was being overproduced to start off with and then you had the virus and that took off 40% right there. There’s a glut of oil like nobody’s ever seen before. It’s good in many ways and depending on where you are, who you are it’s bad.
<40:10>
We have a tremendous energy business with hundreds of thousands of jobs. We’re doing great. Number one in the world. So they all got together and they said we’re going to cut it because we have to get rid of this tremendous supply. Now the good news is gasoline prices, I’m seeing 90 cents, 85 cents in different parts of the country, a gallon. Nobody’s ever seen that. I guess you have to go back to the 1950s for that. The big large dollar bills. Remember? You don’t remember, you’re too young. But the fact that you have to go back a long ways to see it.
<40:43>
So there’s some good, the airlines are trying to come back, having low fuel costs is good for them and other reasons. Steel manufacturing, but a lot of the steel goes to building what we do for the oil and engineering firms. So that’s a double edged sword. But we want to keep our energy, we want to remain independent. We will remain independent I think regardless, but we want to get rid of this tremendous overflow. There’s no place to even store it.
<41:11>
So the OPEC nations met, they’ve been meeting and I’ve hated OPEC over the years. Absolutely hated them, but obviously it broke down and we potentially have years worth of supply, long time before it ever can catch up even if they do reduce it. And they agreed. But Mexico didn’t agree. It was one of the few countries that didn’t agree. This OPEC plus, these are OPEC plus countries outside. Do you understand? And Mexico didn’t agree. And I understand the president very well. He has a level when he came in and he wanted to keep it at that level. Oil is important for Mexico. The problem is, and I explained it very strongly, you’re going to be selling it for $5 or $10 a barrel, so in the end it’s bad. But he did have some political difficulty with it frankly, and I understand that too. And it’s a small amount for us, it’s a larger amount from Mexico, but it’s a very small amount for the United States being the biggest producer.
<42:08>
So I agreed to pick up some of the slack. So he was going to reduce it by a 100,000 barrels, reduces output by a 100,000 barrels. And I was going to pick up the slack and they would make it up to us at a later date. They would make up what we’re doing at a later date. It could be in a different form. And I don’t know whether or not that’s going to… If Mexico was acceptable, I don’t know whether or not that’s going to be acceptable to the other oil producing nations. We’ll find out. But it’s something that would certainly be acceptable to me to get it over the back.
<42:38>
So Mexico is going to reduce by a 100,000 barrels and that would mean that there are 250 to 300 barrels short. We’d make up the difference. They would reimburse us at a later date.
<42:53>
By cutting some United States. Now the US production had already been cut because we’re a market driven economy and oil is very market driven. They’ve been cutting oil all over the place. We’re cutting it back. And what does it mean really? It means that we have it in the ground, we can use it now. Now we have a lot of ground with a lot of oil in it. I think we’re number one in that too. We’re probably number one, especially with ANWR as I got ANWR approved IN Alaska. That’s one of the biggest finds anywhere in the world. So when you add it all up, I think we’re probably number one even in what we have under.
<43:26>
We’re very lucky. We grew up in a land that was rich in a lot of ways, but it’s also rich because it has a lot of oil underneath, oil and gas. And as natural gas, LNG is all over the country now at a very low price. And our carbon, our atmosphere, the level of environmental cleanliness is at it’s all time best right now. All time best. Because we are using a lot of natural gas.
<43:55>
But we have many forms of energy including some of the newer forms that people want to see us go to. We have a lot of different forms of energy. We’re number one in the world. We want to keep it that way. So we’re helping Mexico out. We will be reimbursed in a form sometime in the future.
<44:24>
I think that we’re going to have it in retreat. Will it be today? No. Tomorrow? No, but it will be at a certain point in the not too distant future it will be gone.
<44:36>
We’ll know because people aren’t going to go to the hospital. People aren’t going to get sick. You’re going to know that with that, but we’re going to do very substantial testing. We’re doing more testing right now than any other country in the world by far. And if you’d like to have that question answered, I’ll have the professional answer it. Deborah, perhaps you could come up. We are doing tremendous testing. But you’ll know. You’re going to know before anybody because you’re going to see nobody’s getting sick anymore. It will be gone and it won’t be that much longer.
<48:57>
Want to ask who?
<49:14>
When did they say this would take place? When?
<49:21>
We’ll talk about that. Doctor, would you like to talk about that.
<49:26>
They haven’t seen it. I guess they leaked it to NBC.
<49:31>
But nobody’s seen it and they’re the ones are doing it.
<49:38>
We’ll with find out about it. They don’t know about it. Do you want to say something?
<50:37>
I think we’re going to do both. We’re going to go back to work and we’re going to stay healthy, and staying healthy is also a proportion. If you look at what we’re doing, we’re looking at a date. We hope we’re going to be able to fulfill a certain date, but we’re not doing anything until we know that this country is going to be healthy. We don’t want to go back and start doing it over again, even though it would be in a smaller scale. Yeah. Jeff, go ahead.
<51:09>
Yes, which we’ve already done by the way. But we would agree to a reduction cut. They would agree to do something to compensate us in the future.
<51:27>
We didn’t discuss that with Saudi Arabia. We just discussed the numbers and we discussed who’s opposed and who’s not, and pretty much everybody is in favor of it because they’re getting clobbered, they’re all getting clobbered. All of those countries are having problems. If you look at Saudi Arabia, that’s their source of income. Primary source of income by far. So they want to do it. Russia wants to do it. The OPEC nations want to do it. They All want to do it. So we’ll see what happens. There’s a difference between wanting to do it and doing it. Yeah, go ahead. OAN, in the back.
<52:32>
We will not be happy if that takes place. I have not spoken to President Xi of China about Venezuela, about that aspect of Venezuela, but if that took place, we will not be happy. Okay. I will not be happy.
<52:48>
I’m concerned about everything. That’s why I don’t sleep a lot. I get myself concerned about everything, but I would not be happy about that. Go ahead.
<53:18>
I listen to them about everything? I think they’re actually surprised. I have great respect for these people. All of them. <crosstalk 00:53:25> And others that are working with us. I have great respect for this group. In fact, I told Tony Fauci, I said, “Why don’t you move to New York? Run against AOC. You will win easily.” So he decided that he’s not going to do that? I kid, by the way. You know this.
<53:47>
I can only say this. I have tremendous respect for these people and we’ve done very well and when you look at us compared to others, we’re a big nation. When you look at us compared to others, when you see how we’ve taken testing from a broken system that I inherited to having the best tests that anyone’s made anywhere in the world and other countries are calling us wanting to use our technology. I have great respect for these people. I’m never saying bad about this.
<54:19>
I will certainly listen, I will certainly listen. There are two sides. Remember I understand the other side of the argument very well because I look at both sides of an argument. I will listen to them very carefully though. Please go ahead.
<54:46>
I think my economic advisers are interested in the third quarter and really the fourth quarter. And I think we have a chance to do record fourth quarter numbers because there’s a tremendous pent up demand. And you see it this week. What reason would there be other than faith in us and in this country, faith in this group and me and our vice president and everybody, governors perhaps, you can add them into it also. What reason would there be in a shortened week, four days instead of five to have the biggest stock market gain in over 50 years? So I think that to me there’s a sign.
<55:24>
Look with all we’ve been down, we’ve never been hit, I don’t know, has this country ever been hit like this? Probably not. 1917 but that was different. It was a different time and frankly Europe took the brunt of it. We didn’t, but it was a terrible time also, but probably never been hit like this. Somebody was saying.
<55:44>
In fact, I was speaking with Governor Cuomo about it because we were in New York City, a place we love New York State with the World Trade Center, and that was approximately 3,000 people. Well we’ve doubled that in this same area. We’ve doubled that, more than double it. Substantially more. And it’s obviously going. We had our highest number yesterday and the day before.
<56:07>
With all of this news, what would lead you to believe that we’re going to have the best stock market week, shortened week, in 50 years. Almost broke the all time record. You know what that is? That’s a pent up demand now. That’s my opinion. The other thing is we’re doing tremendous stimulus plans and despite what you reading, there’s back and forth, but we are getting along with the Democrats. They want to see something happen. We have to help our workers, we have to help our small businesses. We have to help our restaurants. I think deductibility will be great for entertainment, restaurants, all of that.
<56:40>
Look, I think with the stimulus, with the people, with what we’ve got going with all of the things, we’re going to be meeting with the airlines over the weekend. We have a great plan for the airlines. We’ve got to keep the airlines going. It’s never been a great business, but it’s a very vital business for the country. We’re going to be meeting with Boeing, we’re going to be meeting with a lot of companies that are great companies and were great companies a short while ago. We can’t let anything happen to Boeing. It’s got so much potential. You talk about potential, can anything have more potential than that?
<57:15>
So we have a lot of very exciting things taking place. We have tremendous plans, we have tremendous stimulus. And I think we have a chance to do really well. So this quarter isn’t the quarter I’m looking at. Third quarter we start to think about it, and I think fourth quarter is going to be at a level that maybe we haven’t seen before. I think our country, with the stimulus, with all that we’ve been through, we’ve learned a lot. Don’t forget, we’ve about pandemics and epidemics. We’ve learned a tremendous amount, and with all that we’ve learned… As an example, we’re making ventilators. We have thousands of them being delivered in the very near future. We have countries calling us. ” Can we have ventilators?” That would’ve been an unthinkable call. I wouldn’t know what to say. They have people dying, but we needed them for ourselves.
<58:08>
We have plenty before the surge. In New York, they need far fewer hospital rooms or far fewer hospital beds in particular than we thought. And I have to say, Dr. Birx told me that four weeks ago, six weeks. I remember you said “That number is too high. We don’t need that many.” And based on what she said and others, we did what we had to do. We actually gave the maximum. We built Javits, we sent the ship in. We then made the ship COVID because there weren’t a lot of people on the roads. You didn’t have the accidents that we thought, other unrelated accidents, nobody driving. Normally you have a lot of car accidents, you have a lot of motorcycle accidents. You have people going to the hospital. We didn’t have that. We had almost none of it, so a lot of things have happened.
<58:55>
I think we have a chance to be stronger than before. I really do. I think the stimulus is very important to what we’re doing. I think it’s very, very important. Please, go ahead.
<59:29>
Well, it’s something that we’ve already suggested. We’re talking to them. Business interruption insurance. I’d like to see these insurance companies. You have people that have paid, when I was in private I had business interruption. When my business was interrupted through a hurricane or whatever it may be, I’d have business where I had it. I didn’t always have it. Sometimes I had it. Sometimes I have a lot of different companies. But if I had it, I’d expect to be paid.
<59:54>
You have people, I speak mostly to the restaurateurs where they have a restaurant they’ve been paying for 25, 30, 35 years. Business interruption, they’ve never needed it. All of a sudden they need it. And I’m very good at reading language. I did very well in these subjects. And I don’t see the word pandemic mentioned. Now some cases it is, it’s an exclusion, but in a lot of cases I don’t see it. I don’t see a reference and they don’t want to pay up. I would like to see the insurance companies pay if they need to pay if it’s fair. And they know what’s fair and I know what’s fair. I can tell you very quickly.
<01:00:31>
But business interruption insurance, that’s getting a lot of money to a lot of people and they’ve been paying for years. Sometimes they just started paying. But you have people that have never asked for business interruption insurance and they’d been paying a lot of money for a lot of years for the privilege of having it and then when they finally need it, the insurance company says we’re not going to give it. We can’t let that happen. Please, go ahead.
<01:01:13>
There are not a lot of issues with this. I got it. There’s not a lot, and it’s a good question. There’s not a lot of issues with testing. Certain sections of the… We go to Iowa, we go to Nebraska, we go… And interestingly Idaho is very interesting because they had a few breakouts, small breakouts, but they are very, very capable states, and they’re big distances. A lot of land, a lot of opening.
<01:01:38>
You don’t need testing there. Where you have a state with a small number of cases, some states with almost none. West Virginia hung in for a long time, as with none for a long time. So when you have that, you don’t need testing. You don’t have to test every person in the state of Iowa as an example. You don’t have to test every single person to say, “Let’s open up and let’s get the tractors moving and let’s get the corn” and let’s open up all of the different things they do in that great state. You don’t need that.
<01:02:11>
With that being said, if there’s a little hot corner someplace, we’ll be testing, but I think Deborah speaks to this very well. Same thing in New York. That’s what we talked to Governor Cuomo about this morning. We have the Abbott test, which is very quick and very easy. It goes very fast. Then we have a lesser test that we talked about where we can talk about a larger area. So we’re going to do testing, but you don’t need to test 325 to 350 million people because, number one, it’s unnecessary. Vast numbers, vast areas of our country don’t need this. I think you agree with me on that. You just don’t need it.
<01:02:53>
Now we have certain hotspots, so Louisiana’s a hotspot, New York’s a hotspot, Detroit’s a hotspot. And then you have certain areas in certain hotspots that you have to even go more so. And we’re doing all of that. Remember this, we’ve done more testing than any country in the world and we have the best test and we developed this over a very short period of time. Please.
<01:03:34>
Well we do have a plan and one of the things I’m most proud about is what I’ve been able to do for the African American community. The lowest job numbers in the history of our country.
<01:03:46>
Just before the virus came. Well, I’m just saying, because this has been here for three weeks. So just before, African American community had the lowest unemployment, the best employment numbers, more African American people and communities have been thriving. If you look at our opportunity zones and what we did, Tim Scott, who is a fantastic Senator, came to me, opportunity zones. More jobs for African Americans than ever before. Better healthcare than they’ve ever had before. All of these things. The surgeon general spoke to it and he spoke to it, I thought really brilliantly. I found it very interesting what he said. And I’d love you to come up and answer the second part of her question because I think you would do a much better job than I would please.
<01:06:49>
Would you like to add anything to it because you expressed it very beautifully before.
<01:07:12>
And I can tell you Jerome has done a fantastic job. Our surgeon general, I just hope nobody steals him and he goes to one of these big companies for a fortune. Don’t leave us. Don’t leave us Jerome.
<01:07:24>
He’s doing a great… You are happy and you’re doing a great job. And everybody tells me that too, so we appreciate it. Please.
<01:07:45>
<crosstalk 01:07:45> problems and a lot of other things. Is it something we’re going to look at it, certainly, and we know they’ve done that. And it’s highly, it’s very new, new technology. It’s very interesting. But a lot of people worry about it in terms of a person’s freedom. We’re going to take a look at that, a very strong look at it. We’ll let you know pretty soon.
<01:08:03>
Brand new. Yes?
<01:08:03>
… had a very strong look at it. We’ll let you know pretty soon. Brand-new. Yes, please.
<01:08:14>
Well, we’re going to talk about the WHO next week, in great detail. I didn’t want to do it today, Good Friday. I didn’t want to do it before Easter. I also didn’t want to do it before we have all the facts. But over the years, many years, we’ve been paying them from 300 to 500 and even more million dollars a year. China’s been paying them less than 40 over the years. So we’re paying them more than 10 times more than China. And they are very, very China-centric, as I said during the weeks, China-centric. China always seems to get the better of the argument and I don’t like that. I really don’t like that. I don’t think that’s appropriate. I don’t think it’s fair to the American people. I’d tell that to President Xi. I’d tell that to Dr. Tedros. I spoke to him one time. I think he’s a very nice man. I liked him, but we’re going to be talking about that next week, in great detail. We’re looking at it very, very closely.
<01:09:18>
We want to make sure money is properly spent. But again, why is the United States paying $500 million a year? That’s a lot. That’s a lot. And why is China paying last year, this year, $42 million? But generally under 40, so it’s in the 30s. So we’re at 500, 452, 400, 401, different amounts, different years, and they’re at 40, 38, 36, 35, 32, 31.
<01:09:54>
No, no. But you have to ask yourself that question and then the answer always turns out to be in China’s favor. Well, I have the same thing with the World Trade. Isn’t that interesting? World Trade. So we have World Health and we have World Trade, so we have the World Trade Organization. And until I came along we were losing cases, so many cases, it was ridiculous. We were always losing these cases. I mean, almost every case. And now we’re winning cases. We just won $7 billion because they know I’m not going to put up with it.
<01:10:25>
China has been unbelievably taken advantage of us and other countries, since they’re considered a developing nation. I said, well then make us a developing nation too. They get big advantages because they’re a developing nation. India, a developing nation. The United States is the big developed nation. Well, we have plenty of development to do. Okay? And now we’re winning cases because they know that if we’re not treated fairly, I’m going to pull out. Now, you never heard this before because nobody ever talked about the World Trade Organization, but the World Trade Organization has treated us very unfairly. But they know I’m not going to put up with it because all of these countries are taking advantage of the United States.
<01:11:09>
Now, in the courts, and the court system, we’re not approving new judges, over the last year and a half. We’re not going to approve them. And Bob Lighthizer is working very hard on that. But we had always a minority position, meaning numbers of judges. So we’d have a minority number of judges. I said, how do you win with a minority number of judges? But all of a sudden we’re winning and the reason we’re winning is they know if they don’t treat us properly… And we won $7 billion just this very recently, and the money is pouring in. And we won other cases too. We want a lot of cases.
<01:11:44>
But you know from covering it, I know you know, that the United States was taken advantage of by the World Trade Organization. And by the way, speaking of China, if you look at the history of China, it was only since they went into the World Trade Organization that they became a rocket ship with their economy. They were flatlined for years and years, frankly for many, many decades. And it was only when they came into the World Trade Organization that they became a rocket ship because they took advantage of all those. I’m not even blaming them. I’m saying, how stupid were the people that stood here and allowed it to happen? But we don’t allow that to happen. And if they don’t treat us fairly, we’ll leave. But now we’re starting to win cases.
<01:12:29>
How about somebody new for a change? Come on. Go ahead.
<01:12:56>
Well, I have a lot of confidence in Ron DeSantis, a lot of faith in Ron DeSantis to make the right decision. He’s doing a great job as governor. Ron DeSantis, I had read where he’s thinking about opening up the schools earlier than the date, the end of the month. I’d have to look at the numbers, but again, I like to allow governors to make decisions without overruling them, because from a constitutional standpoint, that’s the way it should be done. If I disagreed, I would overrule a governor, and I have that right to do it. But I’d rather have them, you can call it Federalists, you can call it the constitution, but I call it the constitution. I would rather have them make their decisions. But he’s made a lot of good decisions and he hasn’t said he’s going to, but he’s thinking about it, so I’ll take a look at it.
<01:13:55>
I think the answer is obvious, but if you want, either, would you want to just talk about that, maybe? Tony? I think I know the answer to that.
<01:15:17>
Depending on the outbreak, yeah. And that’s happened as you know, with a couple of countries. You know what I’m doing? I’m watching the other countries, in many cases, they’re ahead of us from the standpoint that it attacked them before us. It hit them first. And I’m watching what’s happening with respect to certain other countries. Some of them obvious, some of them less obvious and what they’re doing and the success of having. And that’s going to play a large part of the role.
<01:15:44>
We’re also setting up a council of very, very great doctors and business people. We’re going to be announcing it on Tuesday. Some great people.
<01:15:59>
This is beyond economic. This is really, I call it the Opening our Country Taskforce, or Opening our Country Council, so we don’t get it confused with Mike’s task force, which has done so great. And we’re going to have the great business leaders, great doctors. We’re going to have a great group of people. We’ll probably do it by teleconference because we don’t really want them traveling in for their own purposes. I don’t think it would look good also, but we don’t want them traveling in, so we’ll do teleconference. We did one the other day with the banks and it was very successful, the teleconference itself. And we’ll be announcing names on Tuesday, who’s on that, and that’ll play a role. But ultimately, I have to make that decision and then I’ll have to make a decision, do we close a little area that’s a hotspot?
<01:16:43>
I do say this, Jim, I want to get it open as soon as possible. This country was meant to be open and vibrant and great. Not where people are staying in-
<01:16:55>
I would love to open it. I’m not determined to anything. The facts are going to determine what I do, but we do want to get the country opened. It’s so important. So I have a task force, I’ll have a council. It’s going to be announced on a Tuesday with the names that you have a lot of respect for, a lot of great names, different businesses, different people. Top-
<01:17:18>
Bipartisan. I didn’t even ask. I mean honestly, I think it’s bipartisan. The one thing I didn’t ask, are you Republican or a Democrat? Hard to believe, but I didn’t ask. So it would be, and I want their views on what they think. Also very important, different parts of the country. Because you go to the Midwest, it’s different than perhaps the East Coast or the West Coast. Now, the West Coast, those numbers are really pretty amazing on the West Coast. Very interesting. So we’re going to be announcing that in a very short while, probably Tuesday. Go ahead, you.
<01:18:04>
Well, what we’re doing, we have a tremendous force out there, Naval force, and we’re blocking the shipment of drugs. So maybe what they’re doing is stopping ships that they want to look. We’re not blocking. What we’re doing is we’re making sure… We don’t want drugs in our country, and especially with the over 160 miles of wall, it’s getting very hard to get through the border. They used to drive right through the border like they owned it, and in a certain way, they did. They could drive, right? They had human trafficking. All of a sudden they have a powerful wall up and they’re not driving through that wall. That wall is tough and it’s also loaded up with equipment, cameras and sensors and everything you can think of. On top of that, we have drones flying back and forth over it, so it’s a very powerful barrier between Mexico and the United States.
<01:18:55>
A lot of people though, what they’re doing now is they’re trying to come in through the waterways, whether it’s the Gulf or the ocean itself. And what we’re doing is we’re being very tough and we’re being tough because of drugs and also human trafficking. And remember, the human trafficking is mostly females. It’s mostly females. It’s horrible and what we’re seeing is horrible. We have a human trafficking problem worldwide, the likes of which, you think of it as an ancient thing. It’s not ancient. It’s bigger now than it’s ever been before, over the last 10 years, because of the internet. The internet made human trafficking to the extent that it is now, which is massive. The internet made it so big. We have a big Naval force that’s stopping, so maybe when you mentioned that, maybe their ships are getting caught. But we are stopping a lot of ships and we’re finding a lot of drugs. Yeah, please.
<01:19:57>
I meant you, but that’s okay. Go ahead, we’ll do this.
<01:19:59>
Go ahead.
<01:20:07>
Are you talking about the new-
<01:20:10>
Yeah, 250.
<01:20:17>
I’d rather have that be in phase four. I don’t deny it. I think it’s fine, but I think it should be in phase four and I think we should have infrastructure. And I think we should have a payroll tax moratorium because that’s something that over a period of time the workers get sort of semi-immediately. It’s over that period of time. It starts immediately, but it’s over a period of time. I mean, there are a lot of people, I’m one of them, that would have liked to have seen the payroll tax cut as a permanent cut. But we should do the double-edged, meaning business-employee payroll tax cut. So we’re talking about that and I’m certainly okay with helping the States and helping the hospitals. I just think, because look, the hospitals need help. You see what they’ve gone through and the States need help. Some states in particular need help. They need big help.
<01:21:08>
I’m willing to look at that very strongly, but I like looking at it in phase four. The 251 is actually, the plan is working out well, the banks are getting started with the distribution. They’ve taken thousands and thousands of applications. The numbers aren’t even believable, the number of applications. They’re swamped, with Bank of America and Wells Fargo and I guess Citi Bank is just now kicking in. And also what nobody’s talking about, the commercial banks, the community banks, everyone’s talking commercial banks. The community banks are doing tremendous volumes and they’re probably doing them faster, from what I understand. I hear the community banks frankly are the easiest ones in terms of getting the money out. So the money is getting out. The applications are far beyond what we ever anticipated and that’s why we’re going… Because this is money that goes essentially, to the workers. We want the businesses to hold onto their workers because once they lose the workers, they’re never opening again. It’s not going to happen. Okay. In the back.
<01:22:26>
Well, there’s no real cost because we’re agreeing to produce a little bit less. So number one, it’s staying in the ground, you have it, you have it for another day. It’s actually cheaper than storing it where you take it out and you deliver it to a massive well, like the strategic reserves, our national strategic reserves, where it has to be brought there. That’s an expensive process in itself. But oil is getting to a point where, I mean, there are some areas, some people would say the water is more valuable than the oil. You never thought you’re going to see that. You never thought, having covered, I know you cover it, you never thought you’d be seeing oil at $20 a barrel, but how about $ 10 a barrel? That, you’d never thought you’d see. So we are looking at it very strongly. There is no real cost.
<01:23:06>
I want to help Mexico out. We have a great relationship with Mexico, great relationship with the president. I really like him a lot. He’s been terrific to us in the border because he stopped. You don’t see the caravans coming up anymore. You don’t see all the problems. When I took office, it was unbelievable what was going on. And they have been helping us a lot and we’ve been helping them a lot. They make product for us, they sell it to us and it’s fine. It’s a good relationship. Sometimes it’s a great relationship.
<01:23:38>
He could not have done any more than that. And I think there was political reasons for that for him, that other nations don’t have. They don’t have that. The nations that we’re talking about, the 22 other nations that we’re talking about, they just don’t have that problem. So it doesn’t cost us anything and yet, it’s very valuable. We will be reimbursed in the future, maybe in the near future, maybe in the more distant future, but we’ll be reimbursed by Mexico in a certain way and it’ll be fine. But we get Mexico over the hump.
<01:24:10>
Now, with all of that being said, that doesn’t mean the deal is going to happen anyway because they still have a lot of different stakes. But this was one of the stumbling blocks. Okay, go ahead.
<01:24:37>
Well, look, the way I view it is this. China has taken advantage of the United States for 30 years. I mentioned the World Trade Organization. China has taken advantage of us through that and using rules that are unfair to the United States and they should have never been allowed. This should’ve never been allowed to happen. When China joined and was allowed to join under those circumstances, the World Trade Organization, that was a very bad day for the United States because they had rules and regulations that were far different and far easier than our rules and regulations. Plus, they took advantage of them down to the last, and you know China and you study China, and you know what I mean. They took advantage of them like very few people would even think to take advantage of them.
<01:25:28>
Again, they are considered a developing nation. We are not considered a developing nation. They’re given advantages. Okay. For many years, China has ripped off the United States, and then I came along. And right now as you know, China is paying 25% and we’ve taken in billions and billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China. And I know a lot of the people kept saying, “Oh no, we’re paying.” Well, we’re not paying. Countries are different, not every country is China. But China would devalue their currency and then also pour out money. And they essentially were paying most of those tariffs, not us. And as you know, we’ve taken in tens of billions of dollars. They targeted our farmers, but we took in so much money that I was able to give back, one year it was 12 billion, one year it was 16 billion. I was able to give back our farmers the money that they were targeted, hurt,
<01:26:21>
China bought $12 billion and bought $16 billion, one year 12 one year 16. I was able to give them back the 12 and then give them back the 16, the farmers and they weren’t targeted and they’re all in business. Now, we’re doing it because they got targeted in a different way. Now, I’m going to be very interested to see. So we signed a deal with China and under that deal, they’re supposed to buy substantially in excess of $200 billion from us. That’s not only foreign product, it’s manufacturing product, it’s lots of different things. They’re going to buy a lot. I just want to see if they live up to that deal. I know President Xi. I would say he would live up to the deal. But remember this, I never took off the tariff. It’s still 25%, 25% of $250 billion. So for the first time and you saw also…
<01:27:10>
Now again, I’m going before the virus, because that’s sort of like, “Let’s start all over again.” I can’t tell you that yet because that chapter hasn’t been written yet. But go up a few weeks ago, the deficit with the United States and China was coming way down. Nobody’s ever seen that before. But the deficit has come way down. So now, we start a new chapter. And I can only tell you if a smart person is standing where I’m standing, we’re going to do very well with China. I have to also say this, I think our relationship and having the relationship I have with China is a good thing. But for the first time, we’re benefiting instead of being the sucker that got taken advantage, for years. I said to China, “How did this ever happen?” I got to know them very well. I said to them, representatives of China, at the top level… You know who I’m talking about. I say, “How did this ever happen?” They looked at me and they said, “But nobody ever called us.”
<01:28:19>
We didn’t have a deal. It’s not like we had a bad deal. We had worse, we didn’t have any deal at all. So they just took advantage. Think of it, $500 billion a year deficit. $500 million is a lot of money, right? Everyone thinks I’ve made a mistake when I say $500 trillion. No, you mean $500 million. No. I said $500 billion a year deficit with China, for a long time. But it 200, it was 300, it was 400, it was 500, $556 billion, $507. $500 billion plus a year deficit with China. Now, I’m charging them tariffs. It’s very interesting, a lot of people that don’t want to do that, they all agreed. Because China has taken advantage of this country like nobody has ever taken. We have built China with the money we gave them. Now, I give them a lot of credit. I give them a lot of credit. They did it, but you know what? We made it a hell of a lot easier. We gave them a fortune.
<01:29:24>
Go ahead. How about you, in the back? Yes.
<01:29:40>
Sure, go ahead.
<01:29:40>
A little louder, please.
<01:29:48>
Have I been tested?
<01:29:50>
Not that I know of. I’ve had some tests.
<01:29:54>
No. They tell me no. I’ll accept that.
<01:29:59>
That’ll come out. They’ve just developed those tests. It’s sort of new.
<01:30:27>
Yeah. Well, the aid hasn’t been given yet, but they will be asking in my opinion. They haven’t even asked yet. Boeing has not asked for aid yet, but I think they probably will. Now, at the same time, they do have to run a company. This isn’t a great time to sell airplanes, let’s not kid ourselves. If you’re a business person, Boeing makes airplanes. They had a big problem with one, but they make the greatest airplanes. They make the best airplanes in the world. They had the problem with one, they got it too complex. It becomes so complex, you have to be number one in your class at MIT to be able to fly it. It’s a mistake. Every two years they want to make it more and more. I mean, they had great success with the 737, the Boeing 737. Then all of a sudden they do the Max and they say, “Let’s make it more complicated. Let’s put on different engines. Let’s do this. Let’s do that.” It was not exactly a good decision. Bad decision, very horrible decision.
<01:31:23>
Number one, human lives and number two horrible what’s happened to the company. Here’s a company, from a business standpoint, it was probably the greatest company in the world, in my opinion. I think it amounts to 1% of GDP. Some people say it’s a half, I think it’s 1. But here’s one of the greatest companies anywhere in the world, maybe the greatest and boom. Now, on top of what happened there with the two planes, and they say they have that fixed, that’s good. They say they have it fixed, indisputably. In fact, somebody said, they gave me something. I said, “You should say it that way.” They said, “Sir, this is now the safest airplane in the air.” I said, “That’s what you should say. That’s a very good statement. It’s the safest airplane in the air. That’s a very good statement. You should use it.” I said, “By the way, are you changing the name? But whether you do or not, you should use that.” But he said that. A Boeing person said to me, “It’s the safest airplane in the air.” that’s a great thing.
<01:32:23>
But we know they’re going to need help. Now, does that mean they’re going to need help and they should keep people that they absolutely don’t need? That business is a very cyclical business, like many businesses, frankly. That determination hasn’t been made. They have not spoken to us yet. I think they will be. Maybe they won’t need help. That’ll be great. Look, Boeing made so much money. Who would have thought, they had all of those planes that are parked all over the place, in many cases, I guess, payments not made. But who would’ve thought they could do that and they’re still a solvent company? I mean, what a tragic thing happened in numerous ways, but also economically. So when they see us, making sure that Boeing is strong again is very, very powerful and very important and we’ll do whatever is necessary to do. Please.
<01:33:18>
Should we keep this going, everybody?
<01:33:21>
Jim wants to leave. No, I’m only kidding. Keep it going for a while, yes? I mean, we have time, if you want. You’re not going to criticize me, that the conference was too long? If I leave short, yesterday I left short, “It was too short.” If I stay too long they say it was too long. Some day we’re going to get it just right. Okay. Should we continue? Should we continue? Yes?
<01:33:45>
Okay. At least for your question.
<01:33:47>
It’s not a bad point.
<01:33:51>
I have not. No. I have a call just to wish him well, to his group. No, I don’t want to be calling him now. I want him to get better. He’s a great guy. He’s become a friend of mine, real friend of mine. He has a great feeling for our country. Obviously, for his country, he loves it. He’s a tremendous guy.
<01:34:13>
I think he’s probably right now… He was very high… I think he might be 100% popularity right now. When they talk about approval polls, right? You ever hear that term? I’m sure you’ve never heard that. I hear it all the time. His approval rating must be about 300%. but he’s a great guy. He was a great guy before and I think people see what he’s been through. What he’s been through is incredible. And they say, a big turn, so let’s see what happens. Let’s hope.
<01:34:48>
Something like? Excuse me.
<01:34:54>
Yeah. I see a lot of different things. We’re going to be very careful for who comes into the country. Look, my opposition party wants to have open borders. This is a case where I’m very glad that my position is, I don’t want to open borders. I want very strong borders. That includes not only on this Southern border, our Southern border with Mexico, and you could also say our Northern border with Canada, but we want to have strong borders. And I think this is maybe one of the learning points. We learned something about borders. We need borders. The country needs borders to be a great country and I think this is a great point. Go ahead. You have something else?
<01:35:50>
You mean once they get better?
<01:35:53>
Okay. So they have the disease and they’re better and they have the immunity now. Supposedly, according to what I’m hearing, it could be for a long period, could be for a lifetime, it could also be for a year or two, I’m hearing Tony. Nobody’s told me yet, if it’s for a year, if it’s for two years or if it’s for a lifetime. Like chickenpox, they say if you have chickenpox, you have immunity, they say for a lifetime. I hope that’s true. But nobody’s actually told me with certainty, maybe because they don’t know yet.
<01:36:23>
You don’t know yet. Because it’s new. This came upon us. Nobody knew. They do know you have it for a period of time and it’s strong for a period of time. They don’t know. That’s hence the antibodies that we’re making.
<01:36:37>
I saw somebody who was really sick and he got better, a young person, relatively young person, 35 and physically fit and he got better. He made it barely, but he made it. His first thing that he did when he was better is, “I want to give whatever I can give to help other people because nobody should go through.” It’s a tough thing. So we don’t know yet how long… If you’d like to add anything to that, but we don’t know yet. Is it a year? It will be a year, but is it more than a year? And only time is going to tell. Okay, thank you.
<01:37:11>
Go ahead. We’ll try one more.
<01:37:19>
Yeah. I think so. I think we’re going to put some governors. I’ve gained great respect for governors, both Republican and Democrat. I’ve actually become friends with some of the Democrat governors that I wouldn’t have really had the privilege of getting to know. And Governor Murphy of New Jersey is a very liberal guy. I’m not. But we’ve had a great relationship. John Bell, as you know, I call him John Bell, but John Bell Edwards, people call him John Bell, sort of a cool name, from Louisiana. I have a very good relationship with him.
<01:37:54>
Gavin Newsom, honestly, I think… Hey, we’re fighting right now. I want automobiles to be made cheaper and safer and stronger. But you save three, $4,000 per… and environmentally equal, or better maybe. And we’re fighting on that. We’re fighting a lot of different things. We fight on the border. He wants open borders. I want people to come into our country illegally. But I’ve gotten very friendly with Gavin Newsome. He’s done a very good job here.
<01:38:28>
I think I’ve gotten very friendly, I mean, he’s been sort of a friend of mine for a long time, don’t get to see him much, but Governor Cuomo of New York. We talk all the time. I told you I spoke to him literally, the last call just before walking in here. I’ve really developed a lot of good friendships with the governors. And including the governors, I think Mike DeWine, Republican, but I think he’s done a great job in Ohio. So yeah, I want to put on both parties. I want to have some governors. Am I going to have all of the governors? But I’d like to put some representative governors on the council. Yes, I would like to do that.
<01:39:06>
I have, I’ve asked a couple of them. They’ve all said yes. So far, everyone said yes. I think everybody would like to be on that council. That’s a very important council. Go ahead in the back, you haven’t gone yet.
<01:39:28>
You’re going to have to say it louder. To those what?
<01:39:37>
Oh, the pastors. I didn’t understand your word. You have a very nice voice but it’s a little bit low and you’re far back. I’ve had talks with the pastors and most of the pastures agree. This is a very complex subject. Let’s face it, for the obvious reasons I don’t have to go into it. Most of the pastors agree that they are better off doing what they’re doing, which is distancing. They feel that, let’s get this over with and they want to get back to church so badly. I mean, can you imagine we have Easter Sunday and I’m going to be watching Pastor Robert Jeffress, who’s been a great guy. Did I tell you? He’s been a great guy and I’m going to be watching on a laptop.
<01:40:20>
Now, a laptop is not the same as being in his church or being in another church. It’s not and no matter what you say, you don’t get to say, “Oh, isn’t wonderful.” But I’ve done this for three weeks and they’ve had tremendous… I let people know who it is. They’ve had the biggest audiences they’ve ever had. They have millions of people now watching and people are really liking what they’re hearing. I’m going to be with, on Easter, Pastor… I don’t even know if he knows it yet, but he will soon. I think he will in about two minutes. Pastor Robert Jeffress and he’s a terrific guy, a terrific man. I’ve gotten to know him very well. He’s a man of great compassion. He loves our country and I’m going to be with him on Easter, meaning, I’m going to be with him watching on a laptop. Doesn’t sound good, but it’s one of those things.
<01:41:08>
It can not be church, and I’m not going to get into it. It cannot be church. Most pastors and most people of faith, people that we’ll listen to and respect and admire. Franklin Graham is a person I have great respect for and who’s done an incredible job in New York on Central Park where they put up Samaritan’s Purse. He’s done an incredible job. The son of the late great Billy Graham. His family is incredible. He’s incredible. Franklin Graham, the job he’s doing, I mean, he loves to do it. He has such a passion and that’s why he’s so good at it. He does it with incredible love. And he will tell you, we’re all saying, we’ve got to get our country cured. I know there are some pastors and ministers and others that want to get together and I have great respect for them. Two of them I know, but I would say for…
<01:42:03>
And I have great respect for him. Two of them I know, but I would say first heal … I’m a Christian, heal our country. Let’s get healed before we do this and there’s time to do that. We’ll do it for hopefully the rest of our lives. Please.
<01:42:23>
Yeah. Yeah.
<01:42:33>
So the Mercy and the Comfort were sent when projections were much higher. And I say, Tony backed it up. Debra’s made the statement, they said, “You’re not going to need these many rooms.” But we wanted to be prepared. I mean, we had the ship, they did an incredible job with … The Comfort was supposed to be in maintenance for a period of four weeks and they had it done in three and a half, four days and it came up. And so we had it there. If there was a disaster from the standpoint of you needed all of the … I tell you, the Javits Center, Andrew will tell you we were ready to go. It’s incredible the job they did, but they’re using less beds. This is a good thing, not a bad thing. They’re using less beds.
<01:43:20>
Now, Javits has been pretty busy over the last couple of days and the death numbers are horrific, but you go back now and you’re finding they’re going to start to come down very substantially just based on the fact that the bed usage, the number of beds are much, much less, much, much less. So the Mercy and the Comfort were there in case they needed them. Los Angeles, where you have the one, and New York where you have the other, they just don’t … Fortunately, we haven’t hit numbers where they would have needed, they would have been used. There are always going to be sort of overflow because they’re on the edges, they’re not as convenient as certain places, but the people were ready, willing, and able. They were ready to go. They were going to do a great job. But fortunately we don’t need, just like we didn’t need as many ventilators, when they were asking in New York for 40,000 ventilators. I had experts, these people, I listened to them, they said, “You’ll never need that many.” And they were right.
<01:44:21>
New York now has … And I dealt really well with Mayor de Blasio. We got him a lot of ventilators. We got Andrew a lot of ventilators, but we never felt you needed the numbers that you were talking about and we were right on that. Now, with all of that being said, we have a lot of ventilators ready to go. We have almost 10,000 in the stockpile. That 10,000 can move rapidly. We can be within 24 hours almost anywhere, and hopefully we’re not going to have to be, but it’s just … It’s really … This has been a great military operation. It hasn’t all been military, because we’re dealing with great companies. We’re have companies that are making masks and we’re all set up in the masks too.
<01:45:01>
I just told you, we have an order coming in soon. 500 million masks, 500 million. We have companies, you know the story with GM or 3M, also GM, but 3M is doing a great job. I spoke to the CEO the other day. We settled it out. We had a dispute with them and it’s now all settled and I think they’re trying to show the country something. Maybe me, but the country something. So we’ve done … And not me. I’m not talking about me. This country, our country, the people that are doing it, Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA, these people sitting right here, people that we have in the back that are watching every word that we’re saying, they’ve done a fantastic job. They really have done a fantastic job. Please.
<01:46:01>
Well what do we have?
<01:46:03>
Hold on. What do we have? 350 million people? You want to do 300-
<01:46:26>
You’re asking that because of what happened? It’s a fair question too, what happened in Denver. Because in Denver I’ve never seen, I said, “What’s going on?” We’re looking at this graph where everything’s looking beautiful and it’s coming down and then you’ve got this one spike. I said, “What happened to Denver?” And many people very quickly, and by the way, they were on it like so fast. You wouldn’t believe it. They knew every aspect. They have people going, not only testing, who did you see? Where were you? How many people did you meet? Were you out to dinner in somebody else’s home? Where were you? Where did this number of people come from? How did … They are totally on it now this just happened. I just saw it this morning. I’m looking at everything smooth going down, topping out. Then you have this one spike in Denver. It’s like, “Where did this come from?”
<01:47:18>
So we’ll be looking at that and we don’t want cases like that happening. This was … But this is the kind of thing can happen. This is very complex. It’s a very brilliant enemy. It’s a brilliant enemy. They develop drugs like the antibiotics, you see it. Antibiotics used to solve every problem. Now, one of the biggest problems the world has is the germ has gotten so brilliant that the antibiotic can’t keep up with it. And they’re constantly trying to come up with a new … People go to a hospital and they catch … They go for a heart operation, that’s no problem. But they end up dying from problems. You know the problems I’m talking about. There’s a whole genius to it. We’re fighting … Not only is it hidden, but it’s very smart. Okay? It’s invisible and it’s hidden. But it’s very smart. And you see that in a case like a Denver. But I think we’re doing well and they’re on Denver like you wouldn’t believe. I came in this morning, it was a flurry. I said, “What’s going on?” They said, “Denver.” I said, “What happened in Denver?” Because Denver was doing pretty well and they’ve got that under control. But yeah, that would be a case where you do some very big testing. Peter?
<01:48:47>
Number one, I love them. Number two, we’re working really hard. It wasn’t their fault what happened. Sometimes they don’t do a good job and they lose their job. That’s one thing. This is a case where we take the strongest economy in the history of the world, which is what we had. More people working in the United States, Peter, than ever before. Almost, I mean, look at the numbers. 160 million people, almost just short of 160. Excuse me. So we have the greatest economy we’ve ever had, and by the way, black unemployment, Hispanic unemployment, Asian unemployment, the best numbers we’ve ever had in virtually every way. And then you get hit like this and it’s dramatic. People that had great jobs that went out to dinner and they didn’t have any problems, they take their family, they were making good salaries. All of a sudden, you use the term cold turkey, it’s cold turkey. They go from that to having no money and waiting for their checks, which are being processed very rapidly, but they still … They have to go out and look for money. It’s a terrible thing. All I say is we love them, we’re working so hard, and they’re going to be back, and I hope they’re going to be back even stronger than before.
<01:50:13>
Yeah, no, it’s really … The states can do things if they want. I can override it if I want, but the national stay at home, just so you understand, 95% of the country is stay at home. Like as an example, I was speaking with the great governor of Texas, Greg Abbott the other day. He has a stay at home. A lot of people didn’t even know it, but he had to stay at home. Some people reported Texas wasn’t. He had a very strong, actually a very strong state at home, 95 to 96%. South Carolina, as you know, has it, which at one point, we could go, they didn’t have South Carolina, another great governor, McMaster. No, 95% of the country is covered. Now, the states that aren’t, and again, constitutionally from a Federalist standpoint, if I thought there was a problem, if I saw a state with a problem, I would absolutely demand it. But they’re doing great. And the states that aren’t, are states that have not had a big problem.
<01:51:19>
I have great authority if I want to use it, I would rather have the states use it. I would rather … And this is so shocking for me, a lot of people are saying, “Wow, he’s really very <inaudible 01:51:27>.” A lot of people are shocked. They think I’d do it. I have absolute authority to use it, but so far our relationship with governors and the job they’re doing, I haven’t had to do it. Would I do it? If I saw a state that was out of control and they didn’t have the stay at home policy, I would do it in a heartbeat. Jeff?
<01:51:51>
It’s a very big decision.
<01:51:52>
I don’t know that I’ve had a bigger decision than that, when you think, right, I mean, think of that decision. Somebody said it’s totally up to the president, I saw it this morning, it’s totally up, and it is. I don’t know that I’ve had a bigger decision, but I’m going to surround myself with the greatest minds. Not only the greatest minds but the greatest minds in numerous different businesses, including the business of politics and reason, and we’re going to make a decision and hopefully it’s going to be the right decision. I will say this, I want to get it open as soon as we can. We have to get our country open, Jeff.
<01:52:28>
The metrics right here. That’s my metrics. That’s all I can do. I can listen to 35 people. At the end, I’ve got to make a decision and I didn’t think of it until yesterday. I said, “This is a big decision.” But I want to be guided. I’m going to be guided by them. I’m going to be guided by our vice president. I’m going to make a decision based on a lot of different opinions. Some will maybe disagree, and some I’d love to see it where they don’t disagree. Will there be risks? It’s always going to be a risk that something can flare up. There’s always going to … Look, look at what’s happening where countries are trying to get open and there’s a flare up and they’ll go, but I’d like the flare up to be very localized so that we can control it from a local standpoint without having to close. There’s always a risk.
<01:53:17>
This is genius that we’re fighting, we’re fighting this hidden enemy, which is genius. Okay? It’s genius. The way it’s attacked so many countries at so many different angles. I mean, you take a look at what’s going on and the greatest doctors in the world, I think they’re close, by the way, but they haven’t figured it out yet. Look what it’s done to some people. I mean, some people it’s grabbed and it’s a horrible way to go. You want to know the truth. It’s a horrible … And then other people that hardly has an impact. We talked about it, it’s sniffles, it’s less. They don’t even know they had anything. And some people … I looked at New York this morning and I look at what’s happening in the amount of people that are dying. And dying, violently dying. It’s a very tough adversary, but we’re going to win and we’re going to win it very decisively. I’m going to have to make a decision, and I only hope to God that it’s the right decision. But I would say without question, it’s the biggest decision I’ve ever had to make.
<01:54:52>
Want to answer that?
<02:00:16>
I just want to say that you’ve talked about couldn’t it lead to death, meaning you open up could lead to death and you’re right, but you know what? Staying at home leads to death also. And it’s very traumatic for this country, but staying at home, if you look at numbers, that leads to a different kind of death perhaps, but it leads to death also. So it’s a very big decision. As I say, it’s the biggest decision I’ll ever make. All right. We’ll do a couple of more and we’ll go. Thank you.
<02:00:53>
Yes.
<02:01:10>
The other side seems to keep using that, and I have used it. I’ve enacted it, and I’ve used it, some people thought viciously, just ask a couple of companies if you want, you can just look up the names. And I’m surprised that he would’ve said that. We actually have great tests. We have others under development. You don’t need full testing, as the doctors have been talking about ad nauseum. So I would be surprised that he would’ve said that meaning it that way. If he did, I’d have a much different type answer. Go ahead.
<02:01:44>
We talked about testing. Yeah, we did talk about testing and one of the things I did was I put the two doctors in charge of that call. I said, “You know what Andrew? I have two very talented people standing here. We’re getting ready to go on. Let me put them and let me have them talk to you.” And they talked to him really at length and I think by the time they finished he understood what he was, what we were saying. He understood it very clearly.
<02:02:31>
I understand the question very well. Nobody has done to China or treated China as strongly as I have, used the word strongly. As you know, you’ve reported on it. Billions and billions of is flowing into our treasury because of what I’ve done with China. I think it’s a very sad thing that happened, and I think if people knew, including the World Health Organization, and I do believe they knew, but they didn’t want to tell the world, and we’re going to get to the bottom of it, and we’ll have reports on all of this and we are … We’re not happy about it, but I wanted to leave the world health war later and I can tell you that we’re constantly in touch with China. We’re talking to China, and we’ve expressed how we felt. We’re not happy about it. We’re not happy about it at all, Kristen. Okay. One or two more. Yeah?
<02:03:36>
No happy talk today.
<02:03:50>
Why would you say no?
<02:03:53>
I think the answer is yes. Who said no to that?
<02:03:56>
No, no, you’re saying no, but who said no? You’re asking me do we have enough masks? Yes.
<02:04:02>
No, you didn’t say that. You said, do we have enough masks? Do we have enough tests? Yes. Plus we developing new tests. Do we have enough ventilators? Yes. Do we have enough hospital beds? Yes. We’ve built 20,000 hospital beds. We have enough hospital beds. Go ahead Jim. Let’s go.
<02:04:22>
You know what I say.
<02:04:23>
Well, a lot of it’s fake news.
<02:04:24>
A lot of it’s fake news-
<02:04:29>
The governors reported-
<02:04:34>
Yeah, depending on your air, they always say that because otherwise you’re not going to put them on. Let me just tell you. The governors have said last night, they had a group of governors, 14 governors. They went together someplace and they said, “It’s been unbelievable what’s happened. We’ve been totally responsive. Ventilators. Everyone has the ventilators they need.” To a point where we’re getting calls from foreign countries saying, “You have all the ventilators. Can we get some?” And we’re going to try and help some of these countries. These people have done an incredible job. This is not happy talk. Maybe it’s happy talk for you. It’s not happy talk for me. We’re talking about death. We’re talking about the greatest economy in the world, one day I have to close it off and we did the right thing because maybe it would have been two million people died instead of whatever that final number will be, which could be 60, it could be 70, it could be 75, could be 55.
<02:05:25>
Thousands of people have died, there’s nothing happy about it, Jim. This is sad talk. This is the saddest … These are the saddest … These are the saddest news conferences that I’ve ever had. I don’t like doing them. You know why? Because I’m talking about death. I’m talking about taking the greatest economy ever created, we had the greatest numbers we’ve ever had in almost every aspect of economics, from employment to companies. Look at the airlines, they were having the best year. Now all of a sudden we have to save them. Okay, there’s no happy talk, Jim. This is the real deal and I’ve got to make the biggest decision of my life, and I’ve only started thinking about that. I mean, I’ve made a lot of big decisions over my life. You understand that. This is by far the biggest decision of my life because I have to say, “Okay, let’s go. This is what we’re going to do.”
<02:06:18>
Sure. But you have many doctors that say unbelievable job. I watched this morning and I watched a certain network and it wasn’t Fox and you had doctors saying that we’ve done an incredible job. You just read off these no, no, no. Well, we have ventilators, we have equipment, we have beds. How about beds? I mean, Governor Cuomo just told me a little while ago, he’s got plenty of beds. In fact, they are having a hard time filling Javits Center. We built them 2,900 beds. So that’s not a fair question.
<02:06:57>
No, no. Excuse me. We have masks, we have everything, and we were trying to get ready for the search and a lot of people said, “It will never happen.” Deborah said it, you’ll never need that many beds. They said we needed 40,000 ventilators, 40,000 it’s like building a car. 40,000 ventilators. People said, I felt it too, you’ll never need that many. Guess what? We have tremendous … We’re the envy of the world in terms of ventilators. Germany would like some, France would like some, we’re going to help countries out. Spain needs them desperately. Italy needs them desperately. Mexico needs them desperately.
<02:07:38>
He asked me last night, “Would it be possible to get 10,000 ventilators” within a short period of time, I’ll be able to help out Mexico. No Jim, just the opposite of your question. It’s not, no, no, no. It’s yes, yes, yes. We’re in great shape and you know what? What’s happening now is those numbers are horrible, but take a look at the number of beds. We have beds available all over New York, New York really being the epicenter. New York has experienced something that has been absolutely horrific. I saw Hart’s Island yesterday. I saw those people being buried yesterday.
<02:08:14>
Fortunately, we have the beds and you can speak to Mayor de Blasio. You can speak to Governor Cuomo. People can’t even believe the job we’ve done. They can’t even believe it, and I give tremendous credit to the military .. There’s been a military operation with private people, but wait a minute, wait, wait. I give tremendous credit to our military, to the Army Corps of Engineers, to FEMA, to these people. The job they’ve is incredible, and you shouldn’t be asking that kind of a question, Jim, honestly-
<02:08:50>
I really don’t believe you’re that bad a guy, you shouldn’t be asking that kind of a question. You should say, “You know what? It’s been really incredible what’s been happening.” Jim. Nobody’s asking. What governor … Let me ask you this. What governor? We have more tests than anybody in the world. We have every … We have virtually every country in the world calling us, asking us, “How do we get these tests that you have? Your testing is the best in the world. How do we get it?” They’ve done a fantastic job. And when you ask a question like that, it’s very insulting to a lot of great people. Okay, one more, please. Please Doug.
<02:09:34>
Sweden’s is different.
<02:09:39>
I could’ve followed that approach. And if we did follow that approach, I think we might have two million people dead and Sweden is having a lot of difficulty. Look, I’m very friendly with the leadership in Sweden. They took a different approach. They’re a very disciplined country to start off with, but they did take it different, and other places tried it, UK tried it, the herd approach. Okay? Herd, and they tried it and you saw what happened in UK. It set them back a lot. A lot of time, it’s been having a tough time. Other countries have tried it and Sweden is suffering greatly. I mean, Sweden’s suffering greatly. If we did the herd, if we went with the herd as they say, we would have had potentially … I mean, you see the charts. Nobody knows. Nobody will ever know fortunately because we’re going to be substantially less than the minimum. I certainly hope, unless something happens that would be tragic.
<02:10:39>
So they had a minimum number. If we did … One of the reasons were so far below that number is because nobody thought the American people could be so disciplined. Nobody thought it was possible. And I guess when they watched us up here every day and they watched other people and they listened to their representatives and governors, nobody thought that the American people could be so disciplined. They’ve been unbelievable. And because of that, so you have a minimum number of 100,000, and then you had the 2.2 number that if we did nothing, if we just kept working, everybody go to work, people would be dropping dead on the subways. No. If we would have lost a million people … Take the 2.2 million and cut it in half, make it … Cut it in more than half, make it a million people.
<02:11:28>
Okay? Now take that number and cut it in half. Make it 500,000 people. That’s if we did nothing. Right? It’s unacceptable. It’s too many people. So we spent more money on stimulus. Who cares by comparison? You take 2.2 you cut it in half, you cut it in half, you cut it in half, you keep cutting it in half. I don’t care what number you choose. 500,000, 400,000. Well, we’re going to have, we were talking 50, 60, 65 maybe, maybe. But if we would’ve done what one country tried and it has been very tough for them, you know that, very, very nasty, very tough. But if we would have done that here and again, you’ve got to remember UK tried it, and I was a little surprised and I watched it … They were going about what, two weeks? And they said, “We’ve got to stop.” Because it was … They were going to have a whole country infected.
<02:12:25>
So with all of that being said, we’ve got to get back to work. We’ve got to get our country open, but we could have lost two million people. We could have lost one million people. We could have lost a half a million people if we would’ve lost 500,000 people … Now I’ll say this also from the standpoint of being president and vice president, and we’re up there and we’re doing that herd and we’re going to bullet through it. Do you honestly think people like Jim and yourself and other people would have … Jeff would’ve put up with it? As people are dying all over, they would have said, “This man is crazy.” Because the numbers, Tony, at a minimum would have been many, many times greater than the numbers we’re talking about.
<02:13:07>
So I’m very honored by our decisions, all of us. We talk about it all the time. I said, “Do you want to let them just, you just ride it, you just ride it right through.” We would have lost potentially millions of people. Now it would have been unsustainable. It would have been impossible to do, and the American people have been so disciplined. It’s been my honor to be their president. I’ve said it before, I’ll say it again, I’ll say it always. It’s been my great honor to have been their president and I have a big decision coming up, and I only hope to God that it’s the right decision, but it’ll be based on the input from a lot of very talented people, very smart people, and people that love our country. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
