<08:34>
Well, thank you very much and I’m honored to be here at the Detroit area with so many incredible, dedicated African American leaders. Just saying hello to a lot of my good friends outside. We’re joined today by secretary Ben Carson and Scott Turner of the White House Opportunity Revitalization Council. Thank you very much, Scott. Ben, thank you very much. Very exciting being here.
<09:10>
Before we begin, let me say that my administration is working closely with state and local officials following the terrible flooding in Midland County. Our prayers are with those, all of the family members affected, and we’re working very hard. We have the Army Corps of Engineers already galvanized. They’re all there. You have top leadership there. The dam breaks were very bad, very severe. They were old and perhaps there was a mistake made somewhere along the line, but there’s a lot of water coming in and there’s nobody better to handle this. Nobody anywhere in the world, better to handle this situation than the Army Corps of Engineers. So we have them at the top, they’re here and they’re ready to start moving.
<09:53>
As our nation battles the invisible enemy, African American communities have been hit very hard, including in Detroit. As you know, it’s been a very, very difficult time for certain areas of this country. Detroit happens to be one of them. My administration is working relentlessly to rush supplies and resources to these communities and to protect the health, safety, and economic opportunity of all African Americans and all Americans. We have done a tremendous job in the state of Michigan, not only in terms of bringing autos back, auto productions back, but also in terms of fighting the virus. We’re fighting it and we’re fighting it very, very hard.
<10:35>
It came from China. We’re not happy about it all. We just signed to trade deal, the ink wasn’t dry, and all of a sudden this floated in. We are not going to take it lightly. The federal government has sent 11 million pieces of personal protective equipment to Michigan and 1,720 hospital beds built right here at Detroit, incredible job. That was done largely by FEMA, but also the Army Corps of Engineers. We delivered over $2 billion of community health centers, including $6 million for 8 health centers in Detroit, and people from Detroit and friends from the area have said it’s incredible the job that we’ve done. We’ve made a lot of governors look very good.
<11:22>
Working with the private sector, over 400 community testing sites are open nationwide. We’re the number one tester for this virus in the entire world. There’s nobody close. We did almost 14 million tests. Number two is Germany at three million, I think South Korea probably at about almost three million. It goes down to the list. We’re at 14 million deaths. Very close to that. 70% are in socially vulnerable areas with the testing, and with 1000 more sites opening by the end of May, we’ll have a record number of sites. Many of the sites are open in Detroit and all across Michigan. In some cases, as an example, Florida, and I guess I’ve heard from about six governors where they have far more testing than they have people that need the test, so that’s something.
<12:14>
Nobody’s done the job on testing like we have. Nobody’s done the job on ventilators like we have, you’re going to see that in a little while at the Ford plant where they’re making thousands and thousands of ventilators. And nobody that’s needed a ventilator in this entire country has not gotten one, and very importantly, all over the world now they’re calling us for help with ventilators. They’re very hard to make and they’re calling for help on ventilators.
<12:39>
On Tuesday we announced $315 million in federal funding for Michigan to increase testing and contact tracing and disease surveillance, so we’re going all out. We want to make sure everything’s absolutely perfect. A lot of people are looking into other things, like as an example, vaccines and therapeutics. Therapeutically we’re doing some things that are, I think going to be released pretty soon that are amazing. And for the cure, ultimately for the cure. And I think the cure, the therapeutics, and the vaccines that are happening right now, I think you’re going to be very impressed over the next number of weeks. Today they had an announcement that was a very important announcement. Ben, I think you saw that.
<13:24>
I signed legislation providing over $600 billion in massive relief for workers and small businesses, including at least $60 billion for smaller financial institutions, including those that serve minority communities. One of the beautiful things that Scott Turner’s done, he’s a real leader, he’s led so well from his days at the NFL where he was known as being fast, but maybe even more than speed, being tough. He was a tough guy. People told me that that had to tackle up and that had to go against him. They weren’t thrilled. I mentioned your name, they weren’t happy. But Scott’s done an incredible job with opportunities zones. He worked with me and with Senator Tim Scott. I have to tell you, what a great guy. From South Carolina, he was … he had an idea and it was an idea that we took it and we made it work, and I want to thank you for the great job you’re doing, Scott.
<14:21>
Before the virus, African-American unemployment reached its lowest level in history and African-American poverty reached the slowest level in history. We never had more people from the African American community working in this country. It was, in terms of total, almost 160 million people, and African Americans set a new record. Out of that 160, African-American unemployment and employment was the best. They were the best numbers that we’ve ever had. That goes for many others. Also, Asian Americans, you know that, we sent records with Asian Americans and Hispanic Americans. Then we had the plague flow in from China, and now we’re doing it again. You’re going to see some incredible numbers. Starting in June, July you’re going to see some incredible numbers, because it’s coming back and it’s coming back fast.
<15:10>
I spoke to the CDC today about churches. We’ve got to get our churches open, we’ve got to get our country open. These governors have to start doing what they’re supposed to be doing. Together we passed also criminal justice reform, which is a big deal. And that’s something that could not be passed without us. I will tell you, I have a very good friend of mine. Where, you’re coming from Cleveland?
<15:34>
To be here, I’m very impressed with you.
<15:35>
Thank you. Well, your buddy is here, I’ll tell you that.
<15:40>
But we did pass criminal justice reform. You were one of my advisors.
<15:48>
Prison reform, a lot of things that nobody else would have done and nobody else could have done. And the Democrats, I don’t even know if they tried, but if they did and they couldn’t get it done. So we got it done. Thank you very much.
<15:59>
We delivered record funding for HBCUs and made the funding permanent, so every year I would have people come from the black colleges, small, large, all sizes. They would come in, colleges and universities and then ask me for money. After the third year, I said, “Man, what’s going on over here? What’s happening? Why do you keep coming every year?” They had it. They needed it every single year. One man said to me, “We feel like beggars. We keep coming to the white house every year.” I said, “Why don’t we make it permanent, make it long term?” And I got it approved. So now your historically black colleges and universities, small and large, great schools, they have long term funding. The only thing is I said … some of them became friends of mine, the leaders of these colleges. I said, “I won’t be seeing you anymore.” They didn’t mind that, actually, because now they can have a life of making their schools great and making that colleges great. But we did that, and I think most people …
<17:03>
..and making their colleges great. But we did that, and I think most people don’t even know about that, but every year, three years, I got to see the same people and would come in and there’d be 36, 38, 40 in the oval office. We’d take a picture; I’d say, “How come you keep coming back?” And they said, “Because it’s a year to year deal.” I said, “That’s unbelievable.” For many years, year to year, so they have to come in and beg. You said, we feel like beggars. I said, “Not going to happen anymore.” We got it done permanently. Pretty good, right? Will anybody write about it? No, but that’s okay. I think the people know. As long as the people know Scott, you’ve got to get the word out. My pastor has to get the word out.
<17:39>
How are you? Nice to see you.
<17:41>
We created nearly 9,000 opportunities zones, including 94 right here in Detroit. And we’re opening and we’re rebuilding and we’re doing a job, and you can see the numbers start coming in. The projections came in yesterday. Larry Kudlow was telling me the projections are looking really good. So we built the greatest economy in the world, greatest economy in the history of the world, better than China by a lot. China had the worst year they had in 67 years before the virus came in. They were doing… Look, I want everybody to do well, but we were doing better than anybody, and it wasn’t even close. There wasn’t anybody even close to us, and now I’m going to do it again. We had to shut it off. They came in, and we did the right thing. We would have lost million of lives. We did the right thing, but now we’re opening up again.
<18:31>
We’re going to open our churches. I think CDC is going to put something out very soon. I spoke to them today. I think they’re going to put something out very soon. We’ve got to open our churches. People want to go, and I saw a scene today where people are trying to break into a church to go into the church, not to break in and steal something. They want to be in their church. I said, you better put it out, and they’re doing it. And they’re going to be issuing something today or tomorrow on churches. We’ve got to get our churches open. So with that, I’d just like to thank everybody for being here; you’re friends, you’re great people, and supporters, but forget the word supporter. I don’t care. I want to take care of everybody. And a man who’s done an incredible job for me is Ben Carson. Ben, please say a few words.
<24:25>
Thank you very much Ben, appreciate it. A young man who has got a tremendous future. He’s going to be a senator, hopefully soon. He’s representing a state that has already fallen in love with him. I saw him… A few years ago I watched him on television. I said, “Who is that guy?” And I found out his name was John James. And I said, he’s going to be fantastic, and he ran a great race. And now he’s running a race that’s incredible. He loves the people. He wants to help the people. He’s running for the United States Senate. Everybody knows that in this great state, Michigan. John, would just say a few words, please?
<25:08>
Thank you.
<29:06>
Well, thank you, John. You’re doing a fantastic job. I’m getting all sorts of reports, glowing reports, and if you do come to Washington, you have my ear. And your gentlemen that you’re opposing, I’ll tell you, nobody even knows who he is. Nobody knows who he is, nobody never heard of him, and he’s a Senator. So go out and do the job, finish the job. And you’re going to bring a lot of wealth back to this state because it deserves it, okay? Thank you very much, John. Really great job. I want to just call out Ja’Ron Smith. He’s been here with me from the beginning. We never call him out. He works so hard. I say, I want to call him out, he doesn’t want to be. I don’t know, he’s not a shy man, but he’s a very capable man, and you’ve been right from the beginning, and I want to thank you. If you’d like to say something, you can. He never wants to even bother, but this is one tough, smart cookie. Go ahead, Ja’Ron.
Ja’Ron Smith: <29:57>
Well, I’ll say first of all, Mr. President, thank you so much for your leadership. A lot of the challenges that are in African American community are historic in nature. Of course, the COVID pandemic has shined a bright light on some of those historic disparities, rather it’s access to capital or if it’s access to healthcare or the environments that people grow up in. What we’ve established through the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council that you set up two years ago, set off to take upon that challenge, to change it. When you ran and wanted to make the country great, it was making the land of opportunity again, opportunity for all Americans, rather you’re African American in Detroit or you’re from Appalachia a or Hispanic American living in San Antonio. Everyone should get a chance to be a part of the American dream.
Ja’Ron Smith: <30:47>
And since we had that infrastructure in place, the White House Revitalization Council, it made it easy for us to renew that focus and help with the recovery of underserved communities. And through that council, we’re developing even more muscle with partners here at this table to help us really change the way we’ve ever done things for these vulnerable populations. And I believe that through your leadership, we’re going to arise out of the ashes of this like a Phoenix, stronger than ever. And so thank you so much, and we look forward to continuing to work with you.
<31:19>
Well, I just want to thank you for being an incredible talent in the White House, and a friend of Jared and a friend of the administration. You’ve done a fantastic job. Thank you very much, Ja’Ron, appreciate it. Representative Karen Whitsett, a highly respected person, loved in the Detroit area. She only wanted one thing; she wants to take care of people. She doesn’t care if they’re Republicans, Democrats, she couldn’t care less, and I saw her story on television. It’s an incredible story, but she’s an incredible woman. And I don’t care if she’s a Democrat or Republican, I just think it’s very important that we keep her here and healthy and she will take care of whoever she has to take care of, and it’s an honor to see you, and I really appreciate… If you’d like to say a couple of words Karen please.
<32:38>
Thank you.
<33:14>
You get along with them still?
<33:19>
One of the few.
<34:13>
It’s an interesting idea, actually.
<34:16>
May be a lot of money, you’re all set. So, I don’t know, maybe we can work something out.
<34:22>
We’ll talk about that.
<34:24>
We’ll talk about that, thank you.
<35:08>
But I think your idea about historically black colleges, universities coming here, one real good one?
<35:16>
I think it’s a great idea.
<35:17>
With all you said that really… I remember everything you said word-for-word, but you know what? That was an idea I hadn’t heard of. I don’t know if anyone’s ever thought of that, but John, you want to start working on that place?
<35:29>
Isn’t that a good idea?
<35:34>
I don’t know, that might’ve been a filler for you. It might’ve been just a filler, but it wasn’t a filler up here.
<35:41>
We’re going to have John James work on it. If John works on it, I bet you it happens.
<35:57>
Say hello to your husband.
<36:00>
Oh, he’s in the car? Can we bring him in please? Is he all right? I mean, why is he in the car? Can’t make it Scott? He doesn’t qualify? Would you do me a favor? Could you have somebody go out and find him, take his car, let him come in. He only saved your life, right?
<36:17>
She was not feeling too well one night and she said, “Would you do me a favor, go down to the store and get a particular thing?” And that was a big evening. No, he does not deserve to be sitting in a car. Let’s bring him in, okay.
<36:36>
That sounds very good. You got my note, right?
<36:39>
Good. Thank you very much, great job. Scott, could you say a few words please? Outstanding guy.
<39:19>
Thank you very much.
<39:22>
And thanks for doing a great job. You’re really doing a great job. So a man called me and he said, “You got to open the churches, you got to open them.” And he’s somebody I respect a lot. And I watched him defending me a long-time ago, long before I even did this. And he was so tough. He was so brutal. The last thing I thought he was, was a pastor. And then I found out he was a pastor and he’s a great pastor and he’s loved in his community. And I’d like to ask my friend, Pastor Darrell Scott, to say a few words. You are terrific.
<40:33>
Thank you.
<43:06>
Can’t be any worse. Thank you.
<44:14>
Thank you, Darrell.
<44:14>
I do.
<44:18>
Thank you very much, Darrell. Now, I’m going to be making a tour of the factory with the head of Ford and some other people, and I’d love you all to join me if you could. Would anyone like to say anything? Yes, please.
<45:16>
Oh Good. Very good.
<45:45>
Very nice. That’s very nice, thank you very much.
<48:38>
I love John. I love John.
<49:53>
Thank you very much. Very nice. I appreciate that very much. Alfonso, if you could, and I guess we’re going to be a little bit late. We have the head of Ford waiting for us right now, we’re going to walk through the plant. So we’ll go perhaps quickly and I think we have Robin going to speak too, right? So why don’t we go quickly and we’ll take a couple of questions from the fake news, and then we’ll go and tour the plant. Thank you.
<50:35>
Thank you.
<50:43>
He’s the big power.
<51:13>
Thank you, very much. Thanks, Alfonso, I appreciate it. I heard you’re doing really well, too. That’s great. Robin?
<51:22>
Thank you. It’s my honor.
<51:48>
A lot of people have said that.
<51:52>
I go off it tomorrow I think.
<51:55>
I took a lot. I was exposed to a couple of people and I said, “Let’s give it a shot.” The doctor said he recommends it, but I looked at the story of Karen and many others. And I said, “What do we have to lose?” That’s what I said. Anyway. So you had a good experience?
<52:15>
A lot of people do.
<52:45>
If you had the bronchitis problem, you’re a prime target of this invisible enemy.
<53:00>
Right.
<53:14>
How bad did it get?
<53:20>
But the disease itself, was it a rough bout or was it made much easier
<53:35>
Right, I understand.
<53:41>
Great.
<54:32>
There are many people with that experience, they just don’t want to write about it. It’s too bad.
<54:37>
Many, many people.
<55:08>
Thank you, that’s a great story. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Do you have any questions real fast, folks? Any questions for anybody in the room?
<55:16>
John?
<55:22>
Good.
<55:47>
Well, we want them to reopen John. The numbers are going down very substantially without question. I mean, very powerfully going down. You look at Florida, you look at Georgia, you look at many other states, the numbers are going down and they’ve been open, or very substantially open, and pretty much completely open in some cases. And we want them to reopen. I mean, literally I just got off the phone with CDC and I talked about churches. I said, “I want the churches to open and the people want the churches to open.” And I think you’ll have something come down very soon from CDC. We want to get our churches back. Our country is coming back. We did the right thing, I think you would agree. I think we would have had well over a million, it could have been up a million and a half to two and a half million people dead.
<56:34>
And so we did the right thing. It would have been a horrible… Can you imagine if you, saw what we have now and multiply that times 15 or 20 times? So we did the right thing, but we now want to get going. And we also learned a lot about the disease during this time. Nobody knew. We learned about the tremendous contagion and the problems. We learned a lot of very important facts. But now it’s time for our country to open again. And I think you will start with churches. I think you will start with some other states that have been very resistant. You have a lot of, unfortunately this case, Democrat governors. I think they think it’s good politics to keep it closed, but what are they doing? They’re hurting themselves. I don’t think it is good politics. They are hurting themselves. They’re hurting their state and it’s not good.
<57:23>
So I think you’re going to see, pretty much, I think they’re being forced to open, frankly. The people want to get out, you’ll break the country if you don’t. And I think they look at it as a possible November question. It’s not a November question, it happens to be very bad for them. So you’re going to see that happening, I think John. I think that your third quarter is going to be that transition quarter, we’re almost there. It’s going to be the transition quarter and it’s going to be a really good, but the fourth quarter is going to be big. And next year is going to be a big year for this country.
<58:04>
Well, I think we’re very close to opening up the rest. I think there’s a lot of pressure put on certain governors that should be further along. They should be further along than they are and they should not be doing what they’re doing. So we’ll see what happens, but the country is going to be in a very good place. Very good place. And we have a lot of ammunition left. You know what that means. There is a lot of ammunition left in the country in terms of the fed, the treasury, and all the people that are working on it. We have a lot of ammunition left, unlimited ammunition if we need it, but we won’t need it. Thank you.
<58:49>
No, not at all but I think churches, to me, they are so important in terms of the psyche of our country. To me, they use the word “essential.” I think churches are essential. So important. People want to be in their churches. It’s wonderful to sit home and watch something on a laptop, but it can never be the same as being in a church and being with your friends and they want to have it open. And I think that’s going to be happening very shortly, very, very shortly. So that’ll be put out maybe tomorrow, maybe today. Okay? Thank you.
<59:29>
I didn’t say it wasn’t necessary I said that I might have to do that. Yeah. We’re not going to go to voting by mail. Voting by mail is wrought with fraud and abuse and people don’t get their ballots that happen to be in a certain district, whether it’s Republican or Democrat, thousands of ballots are sent out, but they don’t happen to get them, so people are calling, “Where’s my ballot?” They call in a panic. “Where is it? Where is it? The election is coming.” And all of a sudden the election comes, it goes, and they say, “Hey, I never gotten a ballot, but wow, that didn’t affect.” But it did affect because thousands of people that happens to. You go and you vote. And ideally you vote with voter ID. And then you really have an election.
<01:00:13>
But this country, you go out and you buy things and you have your picture. If you want to vote, the most important thing you could do is vote, and they don’t want to go voter ID. So ideally that would be the ideal. There are many places that have that, many places don’t. But no, we don’t want to have vote by mail. We want people to vote now.
<01:00:33>
If you’re President of the United States and if you vote in Florida and you can’t be there, you should be able to send in a ballot. If you’re not well, you’re feeling terrible, you’re sick, you have a reasonable excuse, just a reasonable excuse, you should be able to vote by mail in. You vote by mail in. But when they send, in the case of Nevada, where they want to send out thousands and thousands of ballots, and then they’re going to send it back, who knows who signed the ballot? Is anybody standing there acknowledging, “Oh, that was Mrs. Smith. That was a pastor Darrell Scott. That was Scott Turner. That was John James, the great John James,” who better win, because you would be missing something, Michigan, if you don’t vote for this guy. But who are these people that are voting? They get it, it comes by mail maybe, maybe it doesn’t come. A lot of the problem is they’re not shipped to certain areas. If you have an all Democrat area… Now I have to tell you the abuse tended to be on a certain side, rather than another side, we won’t get into that.
<01:01:43>
And frankly, the Republicans won a very big event on Tuesday where we have a man named Mike Garcia as a Congressman in a Democrat area, was not expected to happen, and he won by a lot of votes. You know about that, John. That was a big decision. That was an incredible victory. The first time in 22 years, 22. So something’s happening. But that was a vote by mail. They mailed it in and actually the Democrats saw they were losing and all of a sudden they through voter booths up in certain Democrat areas. I wouldn’t say that was so good, right? But it didn’t have much of an impact. So Mike Garcia won and we won in Wisconsin, but we can’t do that. To vote, to really vote, and without fraud, you have to go and you have to vote at the polling place. People have to check you in. Go ahead, John.
<01:02:41>
Oh, I’m not going to discuss that. There are so many forms of funding and we’re not going to discuss that. What we want is we want good, straight, honest voting. Okay? Honest voting. By the way, if that could be honest, which obviously it can’t be, you get a ballot, you’re sitting in your bedroom, signing it. Who knows who’s signing it? Who knows if it gets to your house? Who knows if they don’t pirate. They pirate these applications. They print new voting forms and then they send them around, people sign them, or one person signs them with different pens and a different signature every time. Obviously there’s got to be fraud. We’re not babies.
<01:03:24>
There is tremendous fraud. You have all of the harvesting. You have all of the things. They walk in at the end of a race. We had a lot of them in California. They walk in, Ben, at the end of a race and they dump thousands. You think the race is over, you think somebody won, and then all of a sudden out of the blue come thousands of votes at the very end. What happened? Harvesting. Wonderful thing, harvesting. They just happened to find thousands of ballots just at the end. So somebody that thought he or she was going to win the race, all of a sudden gets clipped. We can’t have that. John, go ahead.
<01:04:15>
Well, we’ll have to see what happens. I haven’t seen it yet. I’ve gotten a little briefing, but I’ll have a statement to make it the appropriate time. Okay? Hong Kong has been through a lot.
<01:04:47>
You’re saying FEMA and the federal government? Yeah, they’re here right now. FEMA is here right now. They did a fantastic job on the coronavirus, a fantastic job in Michigan. They did a fantastic job everywhere, frankly. You have ventilators, you can see them now because this is one of the plants where we make thousands of ventilators. But FEMA was involved and we also had… You know that the Army Corps of Engineers at the highest level is right now in Michigan working on the fact that you had some dams breaking, that shouldn’t have broken. And they were probably, maybe not maintained properly. Something happened to them. It could have been human error from what I understand, but it was certainly a physical error, too. They were old, but you have the best in the world to fix them and to get that water stopped. And we have FEMA here and we have the Army Corps of Engineers here. They will be able to take care of it.
<01:05:40>
Let’s go take a tour. And you’re all invited to join me if you want. And we’ll take a look at a great assembly line making ventilators. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
