<22:46>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President. Thank you for your words of discipline and determination. I guess that really describes what we’re asking every American to really be disciplined about these guidelines and really determine to stay in that space of execution. You know, we are just in week three of this full guidance measure. We really do appreciate the work of the citizens of California and Washington state because we do see that their curve is different. Their curve is different from New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut and we really believe that the work that every citizen is doing in those states is making a difference and it will make a difference for the frontline healthcare providers. We also are deeply grateful that despite the way their curve looks today, they continue to get ready for a different potential, so that they can ensure that patients, if they do get sick, have options and availability.
<23:51>
To all the frontline healthcare workers in the what we have referred to as hot zones areas where the number of cases are quite significant. The New Orleans, the New York city metro area, including New Jersey and Connecticut, the incredible work that the front line health care workers are providing. We’ve really working now at a much more granular level, talking directly to hospitals to ensure that they have the supplies that they need in coordination with state and local governments. I think we discussed it yesterday, but I think it was quite clear, also, and reiterated by Governor Cuomo today, that we have to support one another as each of these different metro areas and other areas move through their peak of new infections.
<24:44>
When we talked about it at the beginning of this week, we talked about this week and next week being incredibly difficult and we want to recognize the number of Americans who have lost their lives to this virus and recognize the sacrifice that healthcare providers are making both in their care, but I think I’m very uplifted by hearing their messages to families and their compassion for others to provide that kind of support to the individuals in the hospital.
<25:13>
We continue to watch, in addition, the Chicago area, the Detroit area, and have some developing concerns around Colorado, the District of Columbia and Pennsylvania. As you can see, each of these will follow their own curves. We’ll be getting more and more of those case over time information in a very granular way to each and every one of you so that we can follow these epidemiologic curves as each of these states, counties and communities move through this together in solidarity. And really ensuring that we can move supplies creatively around the country to meet the needs of both the frontline healthcare providers, but also every American who needs our support right now. Thank you.
<54:46>
Yeah, thank you. So while we’re working diligently in the midst of the crisis to make sure that the healthcare workers and everyone who is sick gets provided for, at the same time we’re working on tests and assays that will be critical for surveillance and at the same time working on plans for what we need to do as this moves through the population and we get on the downside, which we’re not there yet. Hopefully most of the states will stay, like California and Washington, and then what we need to do to be prepared for fall.
<55:22>
So all three of those things are happening simultaneously, and there’s people working on each one of those work streams. The antibody piece is critical, as you described, because at this time, let’s say symptomatic status is inversely related to age, and so the younger you are, the more likely you are to be asymptomatic. We have to know that because we have to know how many people have actually become infected.
<55:51>
So when we talked about five days ago, I think on Monday, I called on universities to work on an ELISA-based test to test their health workers and really get through that. At the same time, the private sector is working on tests. What do we want those tests to be? We want those tests to be like what we use for HIV and malaria. Finger prick onto a cassette. You get a line if you’re positive, and you get a control line. Negative, the line isn’t there and there’s the control line. That’s our dream assay because it’s a finger prick.
<56:26>
In the meantime we’re not waiting. I mean, we’re pushing for that. At the same time we’re asking to develop an assay, the ELISA-based assay, which requires a tube of blood. That’s why we’re also talking about could we use dry blood spots. We also put a call directly out to the military because of the Roosevelt to really test all of the sailors on the Roosevelt with an antibody test to get to this critical issue of asymptomatic and already preexisting antibody.
<56:59>
That would be if the first responders knew they already had had it and they had protective antibody. If the nurses knew, the doctors knew, if your school teacher knew, then it’s a very different dialogue. So we understand the importance of that, and we understand how important it is in relationship to understanding this epidemic.
<57:19>
One other comment because I know we’re always saying who knew what when. I just want to make clear. There’s 150-plus countries working on this collectively together. It’s devastating for every single country. When we get through this, we can go back and look at what happened where and what does this epidemic look like. Then when you get through it, then you can validate every model there is known to man. When you’re in the middle of it, you have to concentrate on serving the needs of each American and what that need looks like.
<57:57>
At the same time you have these other work streams on surveillance and how to be prepared both scientifically and therapeutically and vaccine wise for the next fall if it happens again. So I think these things are happening together, but I just want us to really concentrate on the fact that all around the globe, country after country is dealing with this.
<58:20>
We can talk about why didn’t Italy do something or Spain do something or Germany do something, or we can really say, right now we all can do something. We can do the social distancing and all of the pieces that we know is starting to work around the globe in country after country. Then when we get through all of this, we can ask the questions about could we have done some piece of this better as a global community. I will remind you that on February 3rd the head of the WHO said there was no reason to ever do a travel ban. It wasn’t until January 14th that we knew that there was human-to-human transmission.
<59:59>
We can release all of the-
<01:00:03>
We can release all of the …
<01:12:02>
So a lot of the projections you can see are based on, there’s many different ways to look at this. And as we discussed on Sunday, some of it is based on the current global experience. We are about, I think, 6.5 or 5.5 times the size of Italy, a different factor in Spain. And we look at all of those, what their projections are, where they are currently and where that is going, and so a lot of the work is based on how this virus has moved through other populations. That’s a very direct way to see how the virus is impacting of populations.
<01:12:41>
There’s also terrific models and so every day and every night, one of the models that actually looks at the model related to mortality is the healthdata.org data and they update it every night. And you can see where we are in that projection. I think in the last run of that model, they were at 93,000 or something in the model. Now all of that can be changed by our behaviors and all of it can be changed in a different way if we don’t follow those behaviors. If another major metropolitan area ends up having an epidemic like the New York Metro Area, that could dramatically change, not the model, but the reality of the impact of this virus on Americans.
