<02:24>
Mr. President-
<06:24>
Mr. President, with 4% of the world’s population and 30% of the outbreak, what would you have done differently facing this crisis?
<07:23>
Yeah, I think it’s always confusing, particularly confusing to the American people. We don’t emphasize the size of our country. We’re the third largest country in the world, but every country has a different experience with this virus. So you have to adjust everything to population size. So when you look at Spain and Italy, our attack rates to this virus are identical to other countries that have experienced the type of epidemic that we have experienced. So every country is different. That’s why you really need to always report data normalized for population. And then you look at the mortality by population and it’s true. We have compared to our European colleagues, some of the lowest mortality, about half of Italy and Spain. So I think it’s really important that. And then these two States represent what we’ve been asking States to do. And Kansas, they found 50% of their clusters were in specific meat packing, nursing homes.
<08:21>
They identified their clusters, they found their clusters. They took care of those clusters. That was 50% of all of their cases in Arkansas, 80% of the Arkansas individuals have recovered with less than a 2% mortality. So these are the… It’s really important. We’re a big country, but each state is different, but as a country, we’re different than other countries around the world. We’ll be asking questions later about why were certain countries completely spared? I think that’s always a question that we have epidemiology is like that. But if your country has never had significant infections, you can’t compare it to a global number. There’s multiple countries in Africa where there’s really almost no outbreak. And then South Africa has a very different outbreak. So each of these outbreaks are different and that’s why it has to be really granular to understand it and to respond to it. You can see these two states have done exactly what we asked them to do, find cases, contact trace, contain outbreaks, and ensure that their citizens do as well as possible. That’s what these states illustrate.
<09:53>
What about China and <crosstalk 00:09:54>?
<10:02>
<crosstalk 00:10:02>.
<10:40>
I can tell you certainly.
<10:46>
Well, we’ve been way ahead of South Korea for a long time.
<10:50>
Germany has done three million tests, Italy three million tests, UK about 2.7 million, Spain three million. I think to us, it’s not just the number of tests, it’s how those tests are utilized. I think in both of these states, you can see, they focus testing where they knew the outbreaks were. Now they’re proactively testing in nursing homes where they think the outbreaks, could go next and finding asymptomatic cases. I think we’ve only learned in the last couple of months, how many asymptomatic cases there are.
<11:24>
I think a lot of people at the beginning wanted to approach this like flu and most of the people who get flu are symptomatic. So really I think our thoughts have evolved, our understanding has evolved and the states have evolved with us. Really working in partnership to really change how we look for cases. I think that’s really remarkable. We’re not waiting for people to get sick, to find cases now. What you’re doing with testing and what you’re doing with testing in a proactive way is the way we’re moving as a country. And because we can do nearly 14 million tests, we have the luxury to be able to be proactive in our testing now.
<12:03>
…be proactive in our testing now.
<13:26>
Our testing now, we’re almost up to 4%. So some of the European countries are at 4 to 5 percent. Our goal is to ensure that we can find the asymptomatics. And I think that’s really our focus right now, working with every state to really help them identify where these clusters came from historically, and then proactively going for those clusters. Identifying them early and finding the asymptomatic individuals before. And no one’s intending to spread the virus, I always want to be very clear about that. Asymptomatic people don’t know they’re infected, and so together we’re really working to find them. It’s a unique challenge, and I think together we’re really making progress.
<34:26>
Yeah, I think it’s always confusing and particularly confusing to the American people when we don’t emphasize the size of our country. We’re the third largest country in the world, but every country has its different experience with this virus. And so you have to adjust everything to population size. And so when you look at Spain and Italy, our attack rates to this virus are identical to other countries that have experienced the type of epidemic that we have experienced. And so every country is different. That’s why you really need to always report data normalized for population. And then you look at the mortality by population. And it’s true. We have, compared to our European colleagues, some of the lowest mortality, about half of Italy and Spain. And so I think it’s really important that… And then these two states represent what we’ve been asking states to do. In Kansas, they found 50% of their clusters were in specific meatpacking, nursing homes.
<35:24>
They identified their clusters. They found their clusters. They took care of those clusters. And that was 50% of all of their cases. In Arkansas, 80% of their, of the Arkansas individuals have recovered with less than a 2% mortality. And so these are the… It’s really important. We’re a big country, but each state is different, but as a country, we’re different than other countries around the world. We’ll be asking questions later about why were certain countries completely spared? And I think that’s always a question that we have. Epidemiology is like that. But if your country has never had significant infections, you can’t compare it to a global number that-
<36:03>
Has never had significant infections, you can’t compare it to a global number. There’s multiple countries in Africa where there’s really almost no outbreak, and then South Africa has a very different outbreak. So each of these outbreaks are different and that’s why it has to be really granular to understand it, and to respond to it. And you can see these two states have done exactly what we asked them to do. Find cases, contact trace, contain outbreaks, and ensure that their citizens do as well as possible. And that’s what these states illustrate.
<37:43>
Yes, as far as I can tell. I can tell you <crosstalk 00:37:45>.
<37:50>
Well, we’ve been way ahead of South Korea for a long time.
<37:54>
Germany has done three million tests; Italy, three million tests; UK, about 2.7 million; Spain, three million. And I think to us, it’s not just the number of tests. It’s how those tests are utilized. And I think in both of these states, you can see they focus testing where they knew the outbreaks were. And now they’re proactively testing in nursing homes where they think the outbreaks could go next and finding the asymptomatic cases. I think we’ve only learned in the last couple of months how many asymptomatic cases there are. And I think a lot of people at the beginning wanted to approach this like flu, and most of the people who get flu are symptomatic. So really, I think our thoughts have evolved, our understanding has evolved, and the states have evolved with us, really working in partnership to really change how we look for cases. And I think that’s really remarkable.
<38:49>
We’re not waiting for people to get sick to find cases now. And what you’re doing with testing and what you’re doing with testing in a proactive way is the way we’re moving as a country. And because we can do nearly 14 million tests, we have the luxury to be able to be proactive in our testing now.
<40:29>
Yeah, our testing now, we’re almost up to four percent. So some of the European countries are at four to five percent. And I think our goal is to ensure that we can find the asymptomatics. And I think that’s really our focus right now, working with every state to really help them identify where these clusters came from historically, and then proactively going for those clusters, identifying them early, and finding the asymptomatic individuals before… And no one’s intending to spread the virus. I always want to be very clear about that. Asymptomatic people don’t know they’re infected, and so together we’re really working to find them. And I think it’s a unique challenge. And I think together, we’re really making progress.
