<24:54>
Thank you, Mr. President. As you can see from the hopeful signs in Italy and Spain where we see finally new cases and deaths declining, it’s giving us hope of what our future could be. We wanted to give you an update on where all of the states were. We’re looking at this is states normalized per 100,000 citizens. It looks very similar to last week. We wanted to update you. We’ve been covering throughout the week the states that were moving on this map. You can see very clearly where New York is as a state, although this is very much still centered in the New York metro area. New Jersey is the orange line. The green line is Louisiana. That’s followed by Massachusetts and then Connecticut and Michigan are together in those lines towards the bottom, and then of course Washington, DC is now visible on this map, which was not visible before. The yellow line towards the bottom is Washington state. Next slide please. So this just summarize all of the states we’re tracking very closely at the county level. We’re tracing and tracking not only the epidemic at the state level but understanding what’s happening in county by county with new cases, and of course also the deaths. We’re also triangulating that with all of the laboratory data. And just to tell you how we’re kind of doing that. For New York, which you can see at the top, their serology is now about 36% positive. They were in the forties, so day over day their percent positive is finally starting to decline. New Jersey’s is increasing, however. They’re now up to 42% of the specimens that come to the laboratory are positive. Louisiana 25%, Massachusetts 20%, Connecticut and Michigan 20%, District of Columbia 15%, Washington 8%, and then Illinois, Colorado are at about 16%. Pennsylvania, which is also new to the graphic, is at about 12%.
<27:11>
Next slide please. So if we could go back one. I’m sorry, go back one slide, one more. All of the states here, those are 38 of the states, 38 of our states have less than 50 cases per hundred thousand. They are testing. Their laboratory results are consistent with that. Their seropositivity rate for their laboratories are less than 5%. So, this is how we’re tracking and triangulating both case reporting, mortality or fatalities, and also triangulating that with the laboratory. The New York metro area, New Jersey, Louisiana, and a series, and Washington state have all tested at a rate greater than Italy and Spain. I know many of you were tracking that. Remember, many of us we pushed out a lot of those assays at the beginning over the last two to three weeks and I want to just thank Admiral Giroir and HHS. He’s been working very closely to make sure that the states that were having an outbreak had access to all of their assays.
<28:15>
Next slide, please. And then next one. So just to give you an idea of how we’re looking at this, we look at cases every day. I want to just thank my data team. They spend all evening compiling data. I get it about two o’clock in the morning and it looks at all of these metro areas by their granular counties so we can see the counties that have new cases. That also helps us identify the hospitals and understand what hospitals will need ventilators or PPE. So this is the Detroit area. It’s Oakland and Detroit. Wayne County.
<28:52>
Next slide. We also then also track mortality. It gives us insight into how many clients are in the ICU, need care. We want to make sure that we’re meeting the needs both on cases and really appreciating the frontline healthcare workers that are really saving many people’s lives.
<29:10>
Next slide. This just gives you an idea from New Orleans. We are now also tracking St. John the Baptist Parish also, but this would be New Orleans and Jefferson County and really tracking those on a case-by-case basis to look for changes over time. Next slide is their mortality and you can see it’s starting to stabilize.
<29:33>
So, this is how we’ve been tracking and tracing the epidemic as it moves through states and counties and communities. As we started, we just wanted to note again we do see hopeful signs in Spain and Italy. They have completed nearly four weeks of mitigation with people really doing social distancing, staying at home, ensuring they were washing their hands. If they have to go out to the grocery store, they’re extraordinarily careful, they send one person from the family. And so we can really see that beginning to work and we’re very hopeful that over the next week, although we’ll see rising number of cases of people who lose their lives to this illness, we are also hopeful to see a stabilization of cases across these large metro areas where the outbreak began several weeks ago. So thank you for your attention.
<56:22>
I think the most important thing right now is when we were talking about why we are hopeful, we’re hopeful because last time I was here, I wasn’t able to really tell you that Italy and Spain were coming across their apex and coming down the other side. I think, to me, that’s extraordinarily hopeful. They just completed four weeks of really strong mitigation, and I think that’s our word to the American people is we can look like that. Two other countries look like that now, two other countries with a very similar experience to our experience with higher case numbers and higher mortality.
<57:03>
So that’s what the promise is. The promise is if we do this, we could potentially be better. Now, Dr. Fauci and I today got another update from another independent modeler, and the numbers came in close to that 100,000 number. Again, but we believe, Dr. Fauci and I, that if every American follows the guidelines, six feet, washing hands, not social gathering, that will have an even greater impact.
<57:36>
On the other side of the equation certainly is are remarkable health care providers, our respiratory therapists, our laboratory technicians, our nurses and doctors. They’re saving lives every day, and so that changes the number too.
<01:13:38>
That’s perfect, sir.
