<56:02>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I’m going to change the topic just a little bit because there was the questions that came up and I had been asked about this on a couple of media interactions regarding the interventions that we’re talking about. And it’s important because it’s about something that I said yesterday, about what we would likely see… whenever you put the clamps down and shut things down, you do it for two reasons: you do it to prevent the further spread; this we call mitigation, but are you also do it to buy yourself time to get better prepared for what might be a rebound. It may be a rebound that we get things really under control and then you pull back, which ultimately we’re going to have to do. Everybody in the world is going to have to do that. You’re either going to get a rebound or it might cycle into the next season.
<56:46>
So, what are we going to do to prepare ourselves for that? One of the most important things is one that I mentioned several times from this podium, and that is to clarify a bit about the timeline for vaccines, and would that have any real impact on what we would call the rebound, or what we would call a cycling in the season?
<57:06>
Certainly, for sure, a vaccine is not going to help us now, next month, the month after. But as I mentioned to you, we went into a phase one trial, and I keep referring to one vaccine; there’s more than one. There’s a couple of handfuls of vaccines at different stages of development, but they’re all following the same course, and the course is, you first go in to a phase one trial to see if it’s safe, and you have very few people, 45 people within a certain age group: all healthy, none at really any great risk of getting infected.
<57:39>
And the reason you do that… because you want to make sure that it’s safe. Then the next thing you do… and that takes about three months easily, maybe more; so that’s going to bring us into the beginning or middle of the summer. Then you go to a phase two trial or what we say two-three, which means we’re going to put a lot of people in there. Now, we hope that there aren’t a lot of people getting infected, but it is likely there will be somewhere in the world where that’s going on, so it’s likely that we will get what’s called an efficacy signal, and we will know whether or not it actually works.
<58:11>
If, in fact, it does, we hope to rush it to be able to have some impact on re-cycling in the next season, and like I said, that could be a year to a year and a half. I’m not changing any of the dates that I mentioned. But one of the things that we are going to do that you need to understand, that has been a stumbling block for previous development of vaccines, and that is… even before you know something works, at risk, you have to start producing it because once you know it works, you can’t say, “Great, it works. Now give me another six months to produce it.” So we’re working with a variety of companies to take that risk. We didn’t take it with Zika. That’s why we have a nice Zika vaccine, but we don’t have enough to do it because there’s no Zika around; same with SARS. So that’s one of the things we’re really going to push on, is to be able to have it ready if, in fact, it works.
<59:06>
Now, the issue of safety… something that I want to make sure the American public understand. It’s not only safety. When you inject somebody and they get maybe an idiosyncratic reaction, they get a little allergic reaction, or they get pain. There’s safety associated… does the vaccine make you worse? And there are diseases in which you vaccinate someone, they get infected with what you’re trying to protect them with, and you actually enhance the infection. You can get a good feel for that in animal models. So, that’s going to be interspersed at the same time that we’re testing. We’re going to try and make sure we don’t have enhancement. It’s the worst possible thing you could do, is vaccinate somebody to prevent infection and actually make them worse.
<59:51>
Next. And finally, with regard… I’ll get you to your question. Finally with regard to therapies… I mean, we keep getting asked about therapies. There’s a whole menu of therapies that are going into clinical trial. As I’ve told you all on a repeated… again, the best way to get the best drug as quickly as possible is to do a randomized controlled trial so that you know, is it safe and is it effective? If it’s not effective, get it off the board and go to the next thing. If it is effective, get it out to the people that need it. So, you’re going to be hearing over the next month or more about different drugs that are going to go into these randomized controlled trials. And I feel confident knowing about what this virus is and what we can do with it, that we will have some sort of therapy that will give at least a partial, if not a very good protection, in preventing progression of disease. And we’ll be back here talking about that a lot, I’m sure. Thank you
<01:01:06>
Even before, even before. When I go into phase two, I’m going to find somebody that’s going to make it.
<01:01:14>
Partially the federal government, I think in some respects, to de-risk it, but also investments by the companies. A lot of companies are not shy now about doing that. Usually when you do that at risk, John, you’ve got to give some backup for them, and we’ve done that. We’ve put hundreds of millions of dollars into companies to try and make vaccines. I wouldn’t hesitate to do that for a moment, now
