<49:06>
Thank you. We have gray concerns when you look at the model, as I told you, look at the Chris Murray model where he shows a rapid escalation, and you can see it happening with the people we’re losing every day throughout America, and you can see it going up, just like cases, and we’re starting to lose people at the same rate, and we have deep concerns about that.
<49:29>
I think we’re meeting, and we’ve had calls with the clinicians, and that has been extraordinarily helpful. I think you’re watching the alerts, and we have a different population than Italy or Spain, and so because of that, our doctors and our nurses are getting information back really quickly, so that they can talk to each other about how to really combat this.
<49:51>
We’re seeing things here that weren’t reported in other countries, and so I really want to appreciate, I know doctors and nurses are going full out, but they’re also taking the time and their two hours of sleep to write us about what could be happening when you see the cardiovascular disease and others.
<50:10>
So in the model, and there’s a large confidence interval, and so it’s anywhere in the model between 80,000 and 160,000 maybe even potentially 200,000 people, so coming to this, that’s with mitigation. In that model, they make full assumption that we continue doing like exactly what we’re doing, but even better in every metro area with a level of intensity, because we’re hoping that the models are not completely right, that we can do better than what the predictions are.
<50:46>
But we’re tracking it very closely, and I think there’s people around the United States really helping us. Scientists across the country have really given freely of their time to really help us not only model this, but really assure that the American public knows how important it is that they stay doing this. You could see from the recent data, and I have Dr. Fauci talk about young people that are being impacted here.
<51:10>
We didn’t see that the same way in Europe, but our population is about eight or nine years younger, and so we have to be attentive to all aspects of this, to children, to young people, to adults. We know still the people with preexisting conditions, and the elderly are at particularly high risk, but we don’t want to lose any American, and so that’s why I think the president came to the conclusion that at a minimum we have to continue what we’ve been doing, but even better, to every metro area out there we have to do better, we have to ensure that we’re protecting each other. Tony, you’re on.
