<34:39>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. So I know you’re watching the data carefully. You can see the dramatic increases in the number of new cases based on our ability to test additional people, and this will continue over the next two to three days as we begin to have backlogs reduced of the testing. You all have heard the antidotes of people waiting five or six days for their test results. We are moving through all of that as well as testing individuals.
<35:06>
I really want to applaud the frontline healthcare workers, the nurses and the doctors and the testers that have really prioritize, and the American people who have prioritized those with symptoms.
<35:19>
The number of test’s positives is increasing. That is a dramatically important signature that everybody is doing their job. Those with mild symptoms are staying home and self-isolating. Those with serious symptoms are coming forward to getting testing. Our test positive rates are now into the 10 to 11% range. That still means that 90% of the illnesses out there, even the severe ones, are not COVID-19.
<35:46>
I know many of you are looking at the state level data. Still, over 50% of the cases come from three States. This is why we continue to prioritize testing in those States. In addition, 50% of the cases come from 10 counties. We are a very large country with very many counties and I just want to applaud the local and state governments that are implementing their emergency operations centers and plans to ensure.
<36:13>
I want to also really thank the health care workers that have been asked to reduce all elective surgeries, medical and dental visits. This will dramatically increase the number of ventilators that are available in hospitals, but also in ambulatory surgical centers that can be converted and utilized. And also, to the construction industry, we are deeply grateful. The number, as vice president said, the number of individuals have come forward with their construction masks, their booties, their tie back suits, and their masks to contribute them to the healthcare sector.
<36:49>
The president’s request to make this available in that legislation changes the ability and increases our availability immediately by a then 75 to 90% range because the amount of construction use of those elements. Thank you.
<01:04:02>
Well, I think you know all of those decisions are made at the state and local government level, and each state and local government has handled it differently. That’s why we put out from the president federal presidential guidance to every single person about what we think is important for the next two weeks. And as we look at that data we’ll be able to see if it’s having an impact. I think you’ve all seen the modeling studies. Those were driven by the modeling studies showing that if you add these things together, they have a bigger impact than separately. And so those are part of the decision making. We had a whole group of modelers in yesterday. They’re compositing all the data together to look at this carefully because everyone has those same questions of what the impact will be and what pieces could essentially be removed and you still have the same level of impact in decreasing the spread of the virus. The absolute key to this, though, is every single American looking at the president guidelines and taking it seriously, the acts of selflessness that I am seeing are so impressive across the board. But if even 10 or 15% of the population decides that what they’re doing today is more important than the health and welfare of the rest of the Americans, they can spread the virus in a very strong way because you know the level of contagion.
