<16:57>
Thank you Mr. President. If I can have the first slide please. So always, and that’s what the slide is labeled, is goals of community mitigation. Really highlighting that this begins in the middle and the end with community. This community and the community of the American people that are going to have to do the things for the next 30 days to make a difference. I think you know from that large blue mountain that you can see behind me and I just want to thank the five or six international and domestic modelers from Harvard, from Columbia, from Northeastern, from Imperial, who helped us tremendously. It was their models that created the ability to see what these mitigations could do, how steeply they could depress the curve from that giant blue mountain down to that more stippled area.
<17:59>
In their estimates, they had between 1.5 million 2.2 million people in the United States succumbing to this virus without mitigation. Yet through their detailed studies and showing us what social distancing would do, what would happen if people stayed home, what would happen if people were careful every day to wash their hands and worry about touching their faces. That what an extraordinary thing this could be if every American followed these. And it takes us to that stippled mountain that’s much lower, a hill actually, down to 100,000-200,000 deaths, which is still way too much. Next slide please.
<18:45>
Simultaneously, there was a modeler out of the University of Washington that modeled from cases up, utilizing the experience around the globe to really understand how this information that we have from Italy and Spain and South Korea and China could really help us give insight into the hospital needs, the ventilator needs, and really the number of people who potentially could succumb to this illness. It is this model that we are looking at now that provides us the most detail of the time course that is possible, but this model assumes full mitigation.
<19:26>
It’s informed every morning or every night by the reality on the ground coming in from New York, New Jersey, and around the United States. And is modeled and informed every morning so that it is adjusted. So it is up to date every day. This is the model of the predicted fatalities and mortality in the United States and as the President said, it’s very much focused on the next two weeks and the stark reality of what this virus will do as it moves through communities. Next slide please. But this is a slide that gives us great hope and understanding about what is possible. On the bottom of the slide where you can barely see that blue line at the very bottom, that’s the current cases in California. The cumulative cases in California, where they’re doing significant testing. The next line up is Connecticut. The orange line is New Jersey. The blue line is New York. The yellow line is Washington. We all remember Washington state. It was just a month ago when they started to have the issues in Washington state, but they brought together their communities and their health providers and they put in strong mitigation methods and testing. And you can see what the result in Washington state and California is, but without the continuation for the next 30 days, anything could change. Next slide please.
<21:03>
So I’m sure you’re interested in seeing all of the states. So on this slide is all 50 states and the District of Columbia, but I think it shows in stark reality the difference between New York and New Jersey and other states with similar populations and urban areas. Our goal over the next 30 days is to ensure the states that you see, the 48 across the bottom, maintain this lower level of new cases with the hope that we don’t have significant outbreaks in other states and other metro areas as the community comes together to work together and ensure that the health care providers around the globe and in the United States are strengthened by our resolve to continue to mitigate community by community.
<21:57>
This is done community by community. We all know people are in their states and in their communities. And we’re very dependent on each person in the United States doing the same thing, following the presidential guidelines to a T. I know it’s a lot to ask because you’ve done it for 15 days. So if you can show the next slide please. So this is what gives us a lot of hope. This is the case finding in Italy. And you can see that they’re beginning to turn the corner in new cases. They’re entering their fourth week of full mitigation, and showing what is possible when we work together as a community, as a country, to change the course of this pandemic together. It is this graphic and the graphic of many of the states that gives us hope of what is possible with continuing for another 30 days.
<22:55>
Amidst all that hope, I must say that like we warned about Detroit and Chicago, we start to see changes in Massachusetts. New Orleans continues to be a problem of new cases, although they’re stabilizing. And I think it really shows the depth of dedication of the American people to the healthcare providers because they can see the strain that this puts on every nurse, doctor, respiratory therapists, pharmacist, and laboratory technician that’s working together to stem this tide of on relenting sick people coming to their doors. No one has been turned away. No one who has needed ventilation has not received ventilation. But you can see how stressful it is for each of them. So I know it’s stressful to follow the guidelines, but it is more stressful and more difficult to the soldiers on the front line. As we started and we will end, with its communities that will do this. There’s no magic bullet, there’s no magic vaccine or therapy. It’s just behaviors. Each of our behaviors translating into something that changes the course of this viral pandemic over the next 30 days. Thank you.
<01:28:07>
I don’t know if you can go back to slide two, because I wanted to explain two things that I think is really important, because we had a lot of questions about mortality and what it meant. Okay. So you see this confidence interval? So here’s the line. This is the confidence interval. This is where we have the ability to push it down. So you have a large confidence interval around the line. And so we’re trying to move that gray down tighter and below the dotted line. So I think that’s really important.
<01:28:45>
And then if you can go to the next slide. So we really can’t answer your question until we can get antibody testing out there. Because what we can’t tell you, and we can always do this, there’s always samples in hospitals and other things. It’s the way we really define the HIV epidemic in the United States. We were able to go back to blood samples when we had the test and really find out where it was and what was going on. We really need to look in here. And really see was there virus significantly circulating in early March and late February? And what did it look like? And where was it? And was it all in the metro areas? And I think that’s what Dr. Fauci and I are very, very focused on is getting serology testing out there to really figure out when it came, and really have those samples to be able to do that.
<01:29:47>
No, we understand, but we can’t answer it until we see that.
<01:29:56>
Well, that makes an assumption that it was here, a lot back here, that we didn’t see. And until we have the antibody tests, I can’t really answer that.
<01:54:36>
So there was a … The CDC does have recommendations on their website about masks that came to the task force several weeks ago about if you’re infected, wearing a mask to protect others. And if you can’t, you’re working with someone who’s sick and you have to be that worker in the household, because remember we want people in the household being taken care of, that they should wear a mask. I know your question is broader than that and it’s just being considered by the task force now about whether that recommendation that already exists relevant to wearing masks should be altered in any way. So it’s still under discussion.
<02:03:17>
So all of the modelers who presented did … I mean, I just want to thank them again because they assembled from around the globe very quickly, about two or three weeks ago to before we announced the first 15 days to show all the implications of closing the schools, having people stay in their homes. And that’s how it was modeled. Stay in your homes, social distancing of six feet. So no one actually termed it a lockdown as far as I remember. It was more about staying in your home. And I think the difference was … And these weren’t in the models and I think when you talk about could we have known something different. I think all of us, I mean I was overseas when this happened in Africa and I think when you look at the China data originally and you said, “Oh, well there’s 80 million people or 20 million people in Wuhan and 80 million people in Hebei and they come up with a number of 50,000 you start thinking of this more like SARS than you do this kind of global pandemic.
<02:04:29>
I mean, I’ll just be frank, that’s when I looked at it I was like, “Oh, well this is not as close as those quarters are.” So I think the medical community made … Interpreted the Chinese data as that this was serious but smaller than anyone expected because I think probably we were missing a significant amount of the data now that when we see what happened to Italy and we hate to see what happened to Spain. And so what was modeled is not a lockdown. Two countries did remove people from homes that were positive and put them in separate spaces. That also wasn’t modeled, but it could be modeled. And so we could go back and ask the modelers about lockdown versus not locked down. But what they modeled was people staying at home
<02:05:44>
It’s everybody social distancing by six feet when they’re outside. And that is probably absolutely the key more than anything else is if you’re never more than … If you’re never within six feet of any single individual, then you’ve controlled the virus. There are different methods to get you to that point. And I think what I’ve heard from our president and our vice president is they trust the American people to understand that they can be outside, take walks, be six feet away from anyone else and be in their homes, and we trust them to do that without having to lockdown.
