<00:00>
Versus 11% in the placebo group. It has not yet reached statistical significance, but the data needs to be further analyzed. The reason why we’re making the announcement now is something that I believe people don’t fully appreciate. Whenever you have clear cut evidence that a drug works, you have an ethical obligation to immediately let the people who are in the placebo group know so that they could have access. And all of the other trials that are taking place now have a new standard of care. So we would have normally waited several days until the data gets further, dot the I and cross the T. But the data are not going to change. Some of the numbers may change a little, but the conclusion will not change.
<00:45>
So when I was looking at this data with our team the other night, it was reminiscent of 34 years ago in 1986 when we were struggling for drugs for HIV and we had nothing. And there was a lot of anecdotal reports about things that maybe they work, maybe not. People were taking different kinds of drugs. And we did the first randomized placebo controlled trial with AZT, which turned out to give an effect that was modest. But that was not the end game because building on that every year after, we did better and better. We had better drugs of the same type and we had drugs against different targets. This drug happens to be blocking a enzyme that the virus uses and that’s an RNA polymerase, but there are a lot of other enzymes that the virus uses that are now going to be targets for this. This will be the standard of care.
<01:40>
And in fact, when we look at the other trials we’re doing, we were going to do trial with another antiviral. Actually, it isn’t an antiviral, it’s an anti-inflammatory, a monoclonal antibody. We’re going to now compare the combination of remdesivir with this. So as was drugs come in, we’re going to see if we could add on that. So bottom line, you’re going to be hearing more details about this. This will be submitted to a peer review journal and will be peer reviewed appropriately. But we think it’s really opening the door to the fact that we now have the capability of treating. And I can guarantee you, as more people, more companies, more investigators get involved, it’s going to get better and better. So I’ll stop there, but I’d be happy to answer any questions.
<02:32>
No, this has nothing to do with vaccines. This is treatment for people who were already infected. Vaccines is to prevent infection in those who are at risk.
<02:42>
No, nothing more than that. But I continue at the press conferences that we have regularly, keep you up to date that everything is on track with the phase one study. We’re in the third part of it, we’re going to go into phase two in the summer. But nothing has changed that anything I’ve said when we had press conferences.
<02:59>
Yeah, it’s another candidate, another one of several candidates that are moving along because we’re going to have a lot of shots on goal when it comes to vaccines.
<11:01>
Yeah, it’s an underpowered study and it’s not the kind of study we’re … That’s the reason why I was very explicit in saying this is a randomized controlled placebo controlled trial that’s powered to the tune of over 1000 in hospitalized patients. And the endpoint was a clear endpoint, the time that you essentially are discharged and the secondary end point to death. So even though, I mean I don’t like to poo poo other studies, but that’s not an adequate study and everybody in the field feels that.
<13:58>
Well, right now, it’s happening that the FDA, literally as we speak, is working with Gilead to figure out mechanisms to make this easily available to those who need it. With regard to getting it to the market, will obviously have to be approved by the FDA for licensure and the FDA is very well aware that this is something that is very important. So I’m sure they’re going to be moving very expeditiously. But I can’t give you a date.
<14:26>
And thank you for that question, because there are a lot of different permutations. This is in hospitalized patients and the end point was the time to discharge. So it’s unclear yet right now from this study whether or not it would be better for early. We don’t know. It could be, but we only make statements about what we’ve proven and the only thing it’s improving now is in hospitalized patients. So good question, but we don’t have the answer.
