<40:01>
Thank you very much Mr. Vice President. So just reflecting about what we’ve been doing over the last few days. Remember last weekend when we made the forecast that this would really be a bad week, as I mentioned yesterday and the day before, it is in the sense of deaths a bad week. In fact, every day there seems to be a record of number of deaths compared to the day before. In fact, New York today had, again, another record of, I think the city itself was about 820-plus deaths. But what we were predicting with the increase and the real adherence to the physical separation, the guidelines that the vice president talks about, the physical separation. At the same time as we’re seeing the increase in deaths, we’re seeing rather dramatic decrease in the need for hospitalizations. Like I think yesterday was something like 200 new hospitalizations and it’s been as high as 1,400 at any given time. So that is going in the right direction.
<41:04>
I say that, and I always remind myself when I say that, that means that what we are doing is working. And therefore we need to continue to do it. I know I sound like a broken record. That’s good. I want to sound like a broken record. Let’s just keep doing it. I get questions a lot, Dr. Birx and I, about these numbers, the projections that you went from one hundred thousand, two hundred thousand, now down to 60,000. That’s a sign that when, as I keep saying, when you take the data you have and you reinsert it into the model, the model modifies. Data is real, model is hypothesis. Okay? So that’s what you have to do, and that’s what I think we’re seeing.
<41:46>
The other thing that’s some just broad, general good news from the standpoint of a scientific standpoint that there are a lot of candidate potential therapeutics that are going into clinical trials now that we’re sponsoring at the NIH. The kinds of clinical trials that would give us the answer, are they safe, are they effective, and just what is the capability of using them under what circumstances? As prophylaxes, as treatment in early disease, in late disease. So as the time goes by and we have the public health measures to try and contain this, we’re doing an awful lot from a scientific standpoint so that when we do get to next year, next fall, next winter, hopefully we’ll have something that we can offer in addition to the very important public health measures. So I’ll be happy to answer questions later.
<50:05>
I’m not aware of what you’re speaking about now, but clearly there have been anecdotal mentioning of what appeared to be reinfection. You have to really be very careful when you say reinfection. And we were dealing with this with even Ebola back during the Ebola time, that someone might still, when that someone does a test on them, do a PCR on a body fluid of some sort and be able to detect what are likely nucleotides that are not replication competent. So if you’re telling me, which I don’t think they’re saying, that someone has coronavirus disease, they get sick, it’s documented, they get better. And then a month or so later they get sick with documented coronavirus disease. I don’t think that’s what they’re saying. But I don’t want to jump the gun on it until I see the data.
Speaker 5-Reporter: <50:58>
They used the word reactivte, is that different?
<51:01>
Yeah. Well, yeah. What reactivating what means is that.
<51:03>
Yeah, well, yeah. What reactivating means is that it depends what you mean by reactivating. If someone clearly is ill, and they have the virus isolated from them, that you may have a prolonged course. I’d like to see how long they reactivate. I mean, if they were sick and had documented virus, and then three months later they had documented virus. Is that reactivation or is that infection with another virus? I’d like to see the data before I really comment on that.
<51:54>
Well, it’s less medical criteria than it is public health criteria, and I think it’s really important because often people say reopen the government like it’s a light switch that goes on and off for the entire country. We have a very large country with really different patterns of disease and outbreaks in different parts of the country, so it’s not going to be a one size fits all. It’s going to be, what is the kinetics of an outbreak? Is it on the way down? Is that essentially out? Is it still smoldering and possibly going up? I think you’re going to have to take it individually.
<52:38>
Yeah, well, I will allow Dr. Birx to come up. But just my own opinion, I don’t think there are going to be benchmarks that are going to be consistent from one to the other. For example, I would not want to pull back at all in New York until I was clear that that curve really was doing what we’ve seen in other countries, a very steep decline down. And we had the capability, if there was a resurgence, of having everything in place to be able to do the containment as opposed to struggling with mitigation with what we’ve been doing. That’s different than a relatively smaller city, town, or whatever in the Midwest or mountain regions, which is generally very well controlled. What I would want to see, do we have the capability of doing the isolation, contact tracing, and suppression of it? So it really varies differently. So I don’t think there’s one medical criteria, but Deb, if you want to speak.
<01:00:09>
Ditto to everything that Dr. Birx said, but I couldn’t help but thinking when you’re talking about it. You know what the worst enemy of an Rnot is? Physical separation.
