<34:51>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I’ll be very brief. I just want to say listening to the description of Admiral Giroir, I’m very pleased to see how things have evolved. I think we could describe this as entering into a new phase in the testing space available here in the United States. You’ve heard me on many of these briefings talk about the multifaceted armamentarium that we have to address the crisis of what the world is seeing, and the challenge that we’re seeing right here in the United States. I mean, obviously, the travel restrictions have been in my mind a very, very positive way that we have prevented more of the input from outside in that would seat us and make our job more difficult.
<35:36>
And then we have, as I’ve mentioned, the containment and the mitigation from within. You’re going to be hearing more about advanced guidelines about that more precise instructions of how we can implement this mitigation within the community. But now that we have a situation that is going to be rolled out, and remember, I want to emphasize what was just said. We’re not going to go from here to there overnight. It’s going to be a gradual ratcheting up that I believe is going to happen quickly, so that then we can start talking about things and put behind us the multiple, multiple understandable questions about testing and move on to see how we can make this multifaceted approach really work for us.
<36:16>
Because as I’ve said many times, and I’ll repeat it, the worst is ahead for us. It is how we respond to that challenge that’s going to determine what the ultimate end point is going to be. We have a very, very critical point now. If you look at the curves that I’ve described multiple, multiple times, this window that we’re in is going to be very important for us to stay ahead of this curve. Thank you.
<43:22>
Yeah, I meant everything I said this morning on the shows, that really to protect the American people we’ll consider anything and everything on the table. You’re going to see some advanced and updated guidelines tomorrow. They’re going to address some but not all of the questions and concerns. But on a day by day basis we look at this and literally we will do everything that we can to make sure we safeguard the health and the wellbeing of the American people, and that means everything and anything we’ll consider.
<44:01>
Like-
<44:05>
That could be, absolutely. I mean that could be.
<44:11>
I don’t want-
<44:12>
No, what I don’t want to do, is I don’t want to jump ahead of the guidance. I promise you, let the guidance come out. We’ll be here every day. I’ll answer the question after the guidance. I promise you. Okay.
