<25:44>
Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Task Force has been very focused on increasing the supply of personal protective equipment for our great providers. I was one of those providers a few months ago and I can tell you nothing is more important than making sure they have what they need. So in order to increase the supply of N95 masks, FDA has worked with industry and has now authorized two companies who will supply machines to sterilize N95 masks.
<26:13>
Admirable Polowczyk and FEMA are purchasing on behalf of US government 60 sterilization machines, as mentioned by the president. And they will be positioned around the country to increase the amount of supply of N95 masks. Each machine will be able to sterilize 80, 095 masks and 95 masks per day and we hope to actually increase that further. The Vice President and the White House Task Force challenged us yesterday and we responded as a team, FDA issued revised guidance regarding the laundering of gowns because gowns are another issue in terms of supply that we’re looking forward on.
<26:51>
This is not something that normally happens around the country, but issued this guidance, it’s on our website now at FDA. So there’s information about how hospitals can do that to increase the supply. We’ve heard concerns that maybe hospitals might not want to do that because of regulations. And I can happy to tell you that <inaudible 00:27:07> and I have worked on this.
<27:10>
Certified providers and suppliers who follow FDA guidance as posted on the website will be compliant with Medicare and Medicaid requirements. And then finally, last week, FDA provided guidance to manufacturers on manufacturing specifications for cloth gowns. This is another attempt to increase the number of gowns, typically it’s plastic or other types of materials.
<27:35>
And this guidance, if followed, can be used by manufacturers to actually make these gowns and no further regulatory red tape will be unnecessary. They can go into circulation. Thank you.
