<20:11>
Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank you for your leadership during this coronavirus outbreak, and thank you for the kind words about the FDA staff. We have 10,000 scientists, doctors and others, and more than that, working around the clock to aid the American people in this fight against the coronavirus. And those words are very much appreciated, sir. So before the president nominated me, and I was confirmed as commissioner of food and drugs, I was a cancer doctor and I’ve sat across from countless number of patients and had to talk to them about their diagnosis and their treatment, and one thing that was really important is to provide hope. I have great hope for how we’re going to come out of this situation. What’s also important is not to provide false hope, but to provide hope. And as a doctor, that’s the way I come to this.
<21:03>
I’m speaking now to the American people as commissioner of food and drugs, but that part of me has not left. Just look at the way the American people have responded to our calls for mitigation, for social distancing. The American people had great resiliency, and I am so incredibly proud of how the American people have responded. As the president mentioned, he asked us to be aggressive, to break down barriers to innovation, and to accelerate the development of lifesaving treatments, and we’re doing that at the FDA. The FDA is committed to continuing to provide regulatory flexibility and guidance, but let me make one thing clear. FDA’s responsibility to the American people is to ensure that products are safe and effective and yet we are continuing to do that. Our folks and their tremendous professionals are working day and night to do this. You just can’t even imagine how much they’re working to provide the support for the American people, and I thank them.
<22:01>
Since early January, long before the first domestic case, FDA began working in collaboration with CDC. I also want to note that we stood up an incident command group and had been focused on the coronavirus since the very beginning of this public health emergency. This is, in addition, and all of government and all of America approach, and I’ll describe what I mean by that in terms of the development of therapeutics. An important part of that work is expanding the potential therapeutic options associated with coronavirus, and we’ve learned from our colleagues across the globe about this. But I want to focus on one thing. I was a cancer researcher before all this, and one thing I know about this great country of ours is that we have unbelievable innovators. We have people who every day it’s their job to develop treatments for all sorts of diseases. We are incredibly blessed as a country to have this, and as is true in any illness, these great American innovators, academia, private sector, they have engaged us about the best possible treatment options.
<23:05>
We are looking at everything that’s coming across our desks as possible, treatment options for coronavirus, and we’re extremely encouraged by the interest and the promise that we’ve seen from these great American innovators. Now again, we need to look at it. We need the data, we need the information to make the absolute best decisions for the American people, but I want assure you, we have over 17,000 people at FDA who are doing this every day. We need to make sure that this sea of new treatments will get the right drug to the right patient at the right dosage at the right time. As an example, we may have the right drug, but it may not be in the appropriate dosage right now and that may do more harm than good. Those are the things that that’s our job to look at, and that’s why it’s really important we have these dedicated professionals looking at these aspects of therapeutic development.
<23:56>
At the same time, we’re also working through different mechanisms to actually get drugs into the hands of providers and patients. The president mentioned this but one of the mechanisms is called compassionate use. Let me just tell you about this. If there’s an experimental drug that’s potentially available, a doctor could ask for that drug to be used in a patient. We have criteria for that and very speedy approval for that. The important thing about compassionate use, and that’s what the president meant, this is even beyond right to try, is that we get to collect the information about that, because one of the things that I promise the American people is we will collect the data and then make the absolute right decisions based upon those data about the safety and efficacy of the treatments.
<24:38>
We are working expeditiously and we are working to make sure that these products are as safe and effective as they possibly can be. Let me tell you about a few things that we’re currently working on, and this is a plan that was developed with many of the people at this table, our infectious disease experts on the task force. In the short term we’re looking at drugs that are already approved for other indications. So they’re already approved, as the president said, for other diseases. As an example, many Americans have read studies and heard media reports about this drug chloroquine, which is an anti-malarial drug. It’s already approved, as the president said, for the treatment of malaria as well as an arthritis condition. That’s a drug that the president has directed us to take a closer look at as to whether an expanded use approach to that could be done to actually see if that benefits patients. And again, we want to do that in the setting of a clinical trial, a large pragmatic clinical trial to actually gather that information and answer the question that needs to be asked and answered.
<25:42>
Let me give you another example. There’s a cross agency effort about something called convalescent plasma. This is a pretty exciting area, and again this is something that we have given assistance to other countries with as this crisis has developed, so FDA has been working for some time on this. If you’ve been exposed to coronavirus and you’re better, you don’t have the virus in your blood, we could collect the blood. Now, this is a possible treatment. This is not a proven treatment. Just want to emphasize that. Collect the blood, concentrate that and have the ability, once it’s pathogen free, that it’s virus free. Be able to give that to other patients and the immunoglobulins, the immune response could potentially provide a benefit to patients.
<26:24>
It’s another thing that we’re looking at, over the next couple of weeks we’ll have more information that we’re really pushing hard to try to accelerate that. That’s in the sort of more medium short term, and that’ll be a bridge to other therapies that will take us three to six months to develop, and this is a continuous process. There is no beginning and end to each of this, this is we’re pushing this through. The other great thing about the great innovators of America. Some of them tell us it’s taken us years, years to develop therapies. They’re looking at pushing that to the months period of time, and we’re trying to provide them the regulatory flexibility, but at the same time the scientific oversight to make sure that gets done in the best way possible for the-
<27:03>
-scientific oversight to make sure that gets done in the best way possible for the American people. The president mentioned that there is a vaccine trial currently being performed. It’s a phase one trial, so it’s the earliest study that gets done. We expect that to take 12 months to get to completion to actually a time where we could approve a vaccine. These are all things to bridge to the prevention part of this with a vaccine. It’s exciting work and the president is right. This is record time for the development of a vaccine and impressive public private partnership.
<27:33>
The FDA’s efforts to facilitate the development of these products are focused on ensuring timely access while also meeting the agency’s world respected gold standard, relyings on strong data from clinical trials to determine if an experimental or an off the shelf drug that’s used for something else can safely and effectively treat patients. We want to assure the American people that FDA is all hands on deck, as the president mentioned these efforts, and continue to work with interested sponsors to help expedite the work. We remain steadfast in helping to foster the development of safe and effective therapies for COVID-19. Thank you.
<41:12>
Yes.
<41:23>
So with respect to the first question, I’m prohibited by law to disclose confidential commercial information. What I can tell you is, we’re working very closely with the company on this and we’ll have additional information, they will, relatively soon. Yes, there are drugs in the pipeline. We’re looking at everyone. Everyone on this <dyas 00:41:41> gets calls every day as do all of our people at the FDA about potential therapeutic options. We are looking at every single one of them.
<53:22>
So remdesivir and it’s a drug made by Gilead. That’s been in the press. It is currently in clinical trials here and around the world. We have also made it available by that approach that I told you called, compassionate use, where a doctor could ask the FDA for that. And the really positive thing about that, that gives it rapidly to a doctor and a patient. But it allows us to collect the data because what we really need to do is understand what the data and science are in order to make the appropriate decision about safety and effectiveness.
Reporter #10: <53:54>
So how do you just make sure that it is safe. And I mean, is there any concern at all that it will be safe considering that it’s not going through the normal-
<54:15>
Dan, thank you for that question because I just want to be clear about this. Remdesivir is going through the normal process. We are using our internal processes at FDA to set up with the company the protocols to actually collect the data. And you’re right, we need to actually know about the safety and the effectiveness, and that’s done through the clinical trial process. So it’s those data that are going to inform the decisions that are ultimately made about safety and efficacy. This is an unprecedented situation. This is a really significant time. And one thing that, with the president’s leadership, FDA has done is said, “Okay, how do we approach these extraordinary times with extraordinary measures knowing that we have a sacred trust with the American people about safety and efficacy, but still at the same time enable these treatments to get into patients?” And that’s what we’re doing. <crosstalk 00:55:10>
<01:16:54>
Well, the president has asked us to expedite this. And what I want to assure you because of the questions that were asked, we want to make sure that this is done well and right for the American people. The president is right, with an off the shelf drug we do have a lot of information about the side effects of the drug, so that really helps in terms of expediting. But I want to assure you that we’re working as quickly as we can. I don’t want to speculate about a timeline at this point. With respect to vaccines, that’s in phase one trial as I mentioned. We’re expecting that to proceed moving forward, and we’re working with a number of different other companies about vaccine development.
Reporter #5: <01:17:28>
The president had noted phase one was fast-tracked. Is it possible phase two and phase three can be fast-tracked that we might see a vaccine before that year? You said it could potentially be a year.
<01:17:37>
This is a terrific question, and we are really trying hard at FDA to partner with great industry, great academic partners do exactly that. No promises can be made, but one thing that we’re doing is really working hard to fast track as much as possible.
