<02:01:54>
Great. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don’t know if we can get the first slide on cumulative cases. Yes, thank you so much. I wanted to show you a different way of looking at it today. Obviously, we look at case counts per 100,000 Americans in each of our states and metro areas, but I wanted you to see an absolute numbers how much the New York, New Jersey metro area dwarfs all other metro areas. You can’t even see Chicago, Detroit, or Boston, all of those Metro areas are under 25, 000 cases. You can see that the New York, New Jersey metro area is about almost 250,000 when you bring those cases together almost, a lot more. That’s why you hear us talking a lot about the metro area of New York and New Jersey and the counties of Rockland and Westchester and Suffolk and not Nassau and Bergen, New Jersey, and why we’re so focused on getting resources to that metro area.
<02:02:58>
If I can see the next slide then. If I take New York and New Jersey metro area out, this is the other metro areas that we have been tracking very closely. I wanted to show this to you so that you could see how those curves are already starting to plateau. If you look at Detroit, if you look at Philadelphia, if you look at Louisiana. Louisiana’s in green. Detroit is in gray. You can see across the board, across these metro areas, across metro areas which have a higher concentration of individuals, this is what the American people in these large cities have done, where it is more difficult often to socially distance. We’re just really impressed by the work of the mayors and the governors to make this happen. I also wanted you to see this, because you can clearly see Chicago and Boston. Chicago is in the orange and Boston is in the yellow. They’re crossing Detroit, and that’s why we have been very much focused on the needs of those areas. Providence is also in that category. It’s difficult for them to you to see them because they’re a much further down on the slide.
<02:04:12>
But the highest, if you look at the axis on this slide, it’s 25,000. The axis on the last slide was 300,000, so that’s why I really want people to understand each of these small epidemics in each of the metro areas we’re tracking independently as well as epidemics and outbreaks that are happening in some of our other States. I just wanted you to have that perspective of how significant the New York/New Jersey issue is and why we’ve been tracking that so closely, but I also wanted to assure all the other States that were tracking them also very closely and really working with the governors and mayors. That’s why I wanted you to just see that not only are the curves flattening in some of those major metropolitan areas, but they’re starting to decrease. This is what we’re very excited about. These are cases we also know that mortality will lag, so we’re really tracking also the number of individuals who have succumbed to the COVID-19.
<02:05:17>
I also wanted to really note here that, yes, our mortality is less when you combine European countries equal to the size of the United States, and I think this is really two things. One, it’s the incredible work of the American people, but it’s also the incredible work of our healthcare providers and the system of each of these hospitals that have the resources and the ability to respond to the needs of the COVID-19 patients. I think you can really see the superb healthcare delivery that is happening by the low mortality.
<02:05:51>
Just to mention really quickly about testing, because you’ve heard me before talk about it, and then it was a little bit misquoted and misaligned, but there are multiple Abbott machines. I’m going to be very clear, having spent years in the laboratory. The high throughput machines, which are the Roche 6800, and I think it’s the 8800 on Roche, and the Abbott m2000, these are the machines that run between 500 and a thousand assays at a time. The Abbott company worked really hard three weeks ago and getting a million tests out there to be utilized, and they can make a million tests a week for all of our laboratories that have these platforms. So far to date, somewhere around 250,000 tests have been utilized in three weeks worth of work. That’s why we’ve really been appealing to the laboratory directors to really bring all those machines on.
<02:06:50>
Last week, Dr. Fauci and his incredible team of researchers have agreed to really reach out and find additional Roche and Abbott high throughput machines that are in research institutions and doing critical research work to bring them online also to supplement the other laboratories’ work to create a mosaic and a complete strategy that brings together the high throughput platforms with the medium throughput platforms with what are the low throughput but rapid platforms, which is this ID NOW. ID NOW is not going to be the answer to the number of tests that we need over the next few weeks. Those run a test every 15 minutes, and we can get about 55,000 cartridges a day. But I just got done saying that these other machines, of which we have hundreds of, can run 500 to a thousand in a single timeframe. We need to bring all of these assays together, and a team has been created to call every single laboratory and every single research institution across the United States to define the complete capacity in every …
<02:08:03>
Across the United States to define the complete capacity in every single state because it shouldn’t be our expectation that every governor understands exactly everything that’s in his state. But we have to understand everything and every state in order to be able to meet the needs of the American people as we increase testing. Now I know you all know that in three weeks we went from 300,000 tests total to 3 million tests total in three weeks. We know that we have to further increase that. That has been done really by HHS and Admiral Gerard and the team up there and we’re going to supplement that team to really bring on all of the additional resources and platforms that we have in the United States of America. Just like we did with ventilators to bring all of the capacity to bear so that we can also continue to increase testing.
<02:08:53>
Also of course as these epidemics decrease, you can also be able to use more and more testing for surveillance. But I do want to call out the 19 States that aren’t ever represented in these graphics. And by and large the States have been Kenyon to do containment and outbreak investigation. And I’ve been able to talk to many of those States and I would just remind all of us when I talked to each one of these state health officials where they are finding outbreaks are in nursing homes. And so we really need to continue to protect and we continue to test in nursing homes because we know that that’s a particularly vulnerable group and it’s a group where often now that we’re beginning to understand asymptomatic transmission, no one is intending to pass the virus on to others. But we know in essential workers around the United States, people are unknowingly infected and then passing the virus on.
<02:09:51>
And so those are the ones that we’re very interested in finding. And you might say, “Well how do you find them because they don’t have symptoms?” And so this is where we really have to increase surveillance in a very deliberative and understand way. And so we’re really looking what are Sentinel surveillance sites? I think we can see where there’s outbreaks because once people have symptoms you can see them, but where do you do Sentinel surveillance so that you find them before they have symptoms? This is what we have done for decades in HIV and it’s what’s allowing us right now to really control the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Subsaharan Africa because we’re finding people when they’re asymptomatic and treating them when they’re asymptomatic. So this is something we know how to do and it’s something we’re working very closely with CDC and others on to make sure that we can bring that full capacity to the American people.
<02:10:41>
So these are just some insights and what we’re working on. We’re continuing obviously to track every single County and community. And then finally I’m going to call on one additional group. There’s a group out there of our HIV/AIDS activists and community workers that understand these tests that I have been talking about, these RNA based test. Because they often get viral loads in HIV, but they will know how to explain this to the community about sampling and what it means to run those assays. They are essentially virologists. They understand all of these assays. They also understand the antibody assays because it’s the antibody assays that they cancel and utilize in HIV testing across the United States. And they will be our translator to the American public and to their local mayors. They understand these tests, they essentially understand all the virology and all the immunology and I’m really asking all of them to help us communicate what these tests are so the community is ready for them. Because antibody tests measure something very different than the viral load in the front of your nose that we’re using for diagnosis. And so really being able to understand all of those tests, when to use them, how to use them will be really critical. But the great thing is in the United States of America, we have these community groups that understand these tests very well and we’ll be able to discuss them at every level with their community.
<02:31:45>
No that was perfectly said. You ask these questions and I just want to make sure that people understand. So a third of them went specifically to Indian health service and in these states that have smaller epidemics. Two thirds of it went into the public market, mostly targeted to the places where there’s high disease. But only two thirds one that way so that people could purchase them directly and one third went to the Indian health service and to the smaller states that really need these. And so I think what we’re trying to do now is balance the entire testing framework of medium low and high throughput machines to give everyone the maximum flexibility state by state based on what the needs are at that moment.
<02:32:35>
If there’s an outbreak and you have to do 5,000 tasks, you’re not going to do them on an ID mat now machine that takes 15 minutes for every negative, but you’re going to do it on your high throughput machine. So making sure everybody knows where everything is and what is being run will be really critical moving forward because we can’t leave anything not on, everything has to be on the table in order for us to be able to dramatically increase testing yet another. We went up by a log in three weeks, so if we’re going to increase again, it’s going to have to be getting every piece of equipment on.
