<34:03>
So we’re way over the 750,000 per week, currently. We have some statistics. Now remember we required this, thanks to Congress, to be reported. We have about 75% of that test data and now about 1.5 million of those tests have been reported in. I just wanted to give you some ideas because sometimes we think that we’re only testing in the hospitals that this should give you an idea of the quantity and the types of tests that have occurred. So we’ve tested over 200,000 young people up to age 25, they have about 11% positivity rate, over half a million people between 25 and 45, they have a 17% positive rate. Now remember, in order to get tested, you have to have symptoms. So this gives you an idea of the number of people who have symptoms that are not infected with coronavirus. Another nearly half a million people between 45 and 65 their positivity rate is 21%, another nearly 200,000 between 65 and 85, 22% positive and a small group of about 30-plus thousand individuals over 85 and they have a 24% positivity rate.
<35:21>
And so this gives you an idea of where testing throughout all age categories. I see a lot of men in the audience today. I just want to remind them about the importance of health care. Of the male/female ratio, 56% of the people who are tested are female, 16% positive, 44% male, 23% positive. So again, it gives you an idea about how men often don’t present in the health care delivery system until they have greater symptomatology. This is to all of our men out there, no matter what age group, if you have symptoms, you should be tested and make sure that you are tested. We appreciate you engaging in that. And also really recognizing the issues about co-morbidities and making sure that we’re addressing those.
<36:14>
I had a series of great calls with about 17 states that are in our more rural areas, specifically around our indigenous people and tribal nations It was a very reassuring call and you know we are testing across the country. We do have about 63% of states that have less than 10% positive despite significant testing. And within the indigenous peoples and tribal nations, they’re seeing the same thing that we’re seeing across the nation, increase issues around around those with comorbidities and those of elderly, but also issues in nursing homes. And they are testing, many of these states are still capable doing full contact tracing and so they’ve been doing contact tracing from nursing home outbreaks and other outbreaks. It really gives us a clear impression of no matter what we do in the future, we need to really ensure that nursing homes have sentinel surveillance. And what do I mean by that? That we’re actively testing in nursing homes, both the residents and the workers at all times. That is where, and that’s how we saw this at the beginning. That’s what we saw in Washington State. And that’s what we’re seeing in many of the States that have very low case attack rates.
<37:34>
The other thing that I want to leave you with, I mean we certainly know how desperate and difficult the situation has been in New York over the last few weeks, and we’ve been telling and talking about how this would be the week that would be most difficult because of the large proportion of cases that are coming from the New York Metro area. What’s been encouraging to us, those early states outside of Washington and California, which still have extraordinarily low attack rates because of their level of mitigation, all of the new areas that are having new increasing cases, we talked about them yesterday, Washington and Baltimore and the Philadelphia Metro area, that includes Camden, Wilmington, and the counties around Philadelphia. We’re seeing that the case number is what we’ll get to as far as attack rates.
<38:27>
We talked about one in seven in a thousand in New York that are being measured. These are coming in even with their progress of their curve in the one to two per thousand range. Showing that when you start mitigation early it has a very different impact. All of this data is coming together. The testing rates, the serial positivity, the age groups, who really needs hospitalization, ICU, the innovative pieces coming from, we heard a great report from Louisiana this morning on the phone call where they talked about a minimum now of 40% of people coming off of ventilators alive and leaving the hospital. This is very encouraging to us. Really shows amazing progress, clinically, at each of these hospitals, and the real lessons we’re learning and sharing across hospitals.
<39:20>
But really shows us that the original outbreaks were very large. But the newer ones that we talk about in Washington and Philadelphia and Baltimore, it looks like their attack rates and the attack rates in Denver and some of these other states that we had been talking about are much lower than New York and New Jersey. And this gives us hope about really understanding how to integrate this information together. Not dealing with a model, but the real-life cases that are occurring and understanding how to move forward together to really have a different future. So thank you very much.
<53:36>
Thank you. So it’s what I tried to cover in the presentation I gave in talking to the 17 states that have indigenous populations and tribal nations, and discussing with them what they were doing generally, and what they were doing specifically through the Indian Health Service. They discuss the ability to find new cases and doing contact tracing. And so they have strike teams. They are very well organized. You don’t hear about them every day, and that’s why I wanted to call them out.
<54:09>
They are really doing amazing work at their public health institutions, with their governors and their mayors. And they are in full contact tracing. Yes, they’re doing social distancing, but they’re also doing full contact tracing and understanding all aspects of their epidemic. So we’re looking at those pieces, as well as when I was talking about blunting, really when you’re starting to go up that curve, having that unbelievable blunting where you only get evident attack rates and I want to be very clear about that.
<54:44>
When we see cases, these are symptomatics that have been diagnosed. There’s clearly, we believe, people we don’t see. And that’s why the antibody test is going to be helpful to us to really define that. So those are the pieces that we’re bringing together to really analyze that. I did want to say the president talks about the 150 plus countries that experience what we’re experienced.
<55:07>
I just wanted to do a call out. We have Americans around the world in every embassy that are working with those countries now. This scarf came from Africa. It’s one of my public health colleagues there. I just want to recognize the public health colleagues around the world who are doing all of this work together to change the course and their epidemics in every single country around the globe.
<58:09>
I’ll quickly and then we’ll tag team together. So when we’ve been talking about the asymptomatic group, and that’s why I gave you that testing data, where 11% of young people under 25 were positive, many of them very low grade symptoms. What we will be triangulating for you is the testing data with hospital admissions. And then you’ll be able to start seeing spectrum of disease.
<58:37>
Because what you’re not seeing in spectrum of disease is people who never even think that this is something significant, what they have. We’re seeing the significant cases. In testing, you can see that we’re getting a lot of people with symptoms, who aren’t positive. And so really finding out what is the are not? Is it six? Is it five? And the only way to do that at this point right now is to get the antibody tests out there and go into these places that had significant disease.
<59:08>
When we talk about attack rates of seven per thousand like New York, and five per thousand in New Jersey, and test the healthcare workers, the first responders, all of the nursing homes for antibody, and really get to your question, because right now it’s still theoretic. We understand they’re modeling this, and we will get the data to actually look at that. You will see what others have been presenting. So you presented the six. What others are presenting importantly is they’re modeling what’s happening with mitigation.
<59:41>
And they’re publishing that the Rnot with mitigation is approaching like 1.3 and 1.5. So think of what that is. If it was six, and then with mitigation we have it into the ones, that really the power of the American people. No one has varied Rnots like that without a vaccine. But this is what’s happening with really the power of the American people. Tony.
