<01:03:44>
Yeah, I think if we get to the part of the curve that Dr. Birx showed yesterday, when it goes down to essentially no new cases, no deaths at a period of time, I think it makes sense that you’re going to have to relax social distancing. The one thing we hopefully would have in place, and I believe we will have in place, is a much more robust system to be able to identify someone who’s infected, isolate them, and then do contact tracing.
<01:04:14>
Because if you have a really good program of containment that prevents you from ever having to get into mitigation… We’re in mitigation right now. That’s what the social and physical distancing is. The ultimate solution to a virus that might keep coming back would be a vaccine. In fact, I was on the weekly conference call with the WHO sponsored group of all the health leaders in the world who are dealing with this, and we all came to the agreement that we may have cycling with another season. We’ll be much better prepared. We likely will have interventions, but the ultimate game changer in this will be a vaccine, the same way a vaccine for other diseases, that were scourges in the past, that now we don’t even worry about.
Reporter 5: <01:05:04>
<crosstalk 01:05:04> the vaccine?
<01:05:07>
The vaccine is, as I said, it’s on target. We’re still in Phase 1. There were three doses that we had to test. We’d been through the first two doses. We’re on the highest dose now. When we get that data, it’ll take a few months to get the data to feel confident to go to the Phase 2, and then a few months from now we’ll be in Phase 2. And I think we’re right on target for the year to a year and a half. .
Reporter 6: <01:05:29>
If you don’t mind me asking, you and Dr. Birx, have either of you received threats of any kind or have you been given a security detail, given that you’ve been out here every day on camera speaking?
<01:05:40>
Well, anything that has to do with security detail, I’d have to have you refer that question to the Inspector General of HHS rather than my answer to that.
Reporter 7: <01:05:49>
Can you follow up on testing- <crosstalk 01:05:51>
<01:06:14>
A few years ago.
<01:06:46>
You know, John, I don’t know, specifically, this individual what they’re doing, but I can tell you there’s a lot of activity that is centered around a passive transfer of antibodies in the form of convalescent plasma, one. The number is to get immune globulin that you precipitate out of the plasma, and another is monoclonal antibody.
<01:07:05>
It’s based on the same principle of, if you have a protective antibody, passive transfer of that could provide not only protection prophylactically but also treatment. This is an old concept. In fact, immunology was born decades and decades and decades ago with the concept of giving passive transfer of serum to an individual to protect them from an infection. So, I wouldn’t be surprised if he and a number of other people are pursuing this. It’s the right thing to do.
Reporter 8: <01:07:35>
Can I follow up on antibody testing please, Dr. Fauci? At what point can we as a country expect there to be a widespread antibody testing so we know exactly what we’re dealing with here, as well as other questions such as, when can people who are deemed to be healthy donate blood, for example.
<01:07:51>
Okay, so when you talk about antibody testing, there are a couple of things that you want to do. You want to find out if someone has been infected and whether or not they’re going to ultimately wind up being protected. Antibody testing, right now, is not the first thing on our priority. It’s something that we need to do is testing to see if someone is infected. It is very important ultimately to be able to get a feel for what the penetrance of the infection was in society for a number of reasons. You get a better feel of what the impact has been, but also you get a better feel of what the herd immunity would be. So I can foresee in the future that, when we get the facility, which we’ll have for sure… Ultimately, you can get a test that could do this reasonably easy, and do the kind of what we call sero-surveillance study.
<01:08:44>
This is very analogous, that Dr. Birx and I were talking about that a lot, and that is, back in the day when and I were both doing the HIV AIDS issues, back when we first discovered the virus in ’83, and we had an antibody test in 1985. We found out, by serial surveillance representative in different populations, that we were dealing with the tip of the iceberg when we saw individuals who were the ones who actually got infected. It gave us a really good feel for how many people were infected, how many are doing well, and how many are getting ill. I foresee that we’ll have that same sort of information, which will be important information, but right now that’s not our immediate problem. <crosstalk 01:09:28>
