<48:24>
Thank you Mr. Vice president and thank you Dr. Fauci and Dr. Redfield for all of that clarity. If we can have the next slide and I’m going to go back to what Dr. Fauci was talking about just to emphasize those points about the two types of tests and I’m going to talk about a third one. So first we all know about sampling in the front of your nose to all of the labs out there and to the providers you don’t have to use the nasal pharyngeal swab anymore. You can do front of nose sampling. And again, as Dr. Fauci talked about is that is sampling for the virus itself that replicates in your nose and as we know throughout some of the respiratory tissues. The second test is of course then your immune response to that infection that’s in your nose. And so that’s the antibody test.
<49:14>
And so those are the two tests we want to talk about. But I want to come back to something that both Dr. Fauci and Dr. Redfield said and we covered yesterday. Testing is a part of the exquisite monitoring that needs to occur in partnership with CDC and state and local governments utilizing the surveillance systems that are available. What we just talked about the flu surveillance system because we no longer have flu and the syndromic respiratory system that is across the United States. And you can see it’s going back to baseline so that we’ll be able to see at the community level any deviation from that baseline. In addition what we talked about yesterday was adding that asymptomatic component because I think you’ll see as more and more articles come out for surveillance and monitoring that other states have done higher and higher antibody in multiple individuals who don’t remember having a sickness.
<50:16>
And that will give us an idea that’s our asymptomatic monitoring in these Sentinel monitoring sites. And what did we talk about yesterday? We talked about nursing homes, we talked about indigenous people and we talked about vulnerable people in the inner city. Really ensuring that something that is so small that can’t even be seen on the surveillance monitoring will be able to be seen in the asymptomatic. And so those are the two tests that we have. One available now, two that have been approved or three by the FDA. I want to just leave you with my last concept on the antibody tests. Antibody tests have different specificity and sensitivities. The FDA has been very cautious about the antibody tests because I know you see reports every day of countries that have ordered the antibody test and found that they were 50, 60, 70% faulty. So we’re taking that very seriously because you never want to tell someone that they have an antibody and potential immunity when they don’t.
<51:26>
And so those tests perform better when there’s a high prevalence or a high incidence of disease. So we want to work with mayors around the United States as those antibody tests become available to really see what it is in first responders and healthcare workers in the highest prevalence states so that we can know about the quality and the real life, real field experience of those assays. Because things can look very good in the lab and then when you take them into the field sometimes they’re not as good. I’ve learned this lesson repeatedly in working around the globe. The next slide. So this is what we have asked commercial and diagnostic companies to be working on. Because when you talk about multi-millions worth of tests, the way we do this in the United States today for strep, for influenza and for malaria is we test for the antigen.
<52:27>
Now, we don’t know right now is you shed antigen in the front of your nose. And so that is the question that scientists and companies are working on right now. Because that becomes a simpler test. Now, the flu test I think many of you will look it up tonight. You will see that outside of the flu season, because of the specificity of the test, it doesn’t work so well. So these are tests we’re working on today that would be like a screening test because if you’re positive on it, it’s a good test. But it may miss that you actually have the flu. So then you would move into what we call the nucleic acid test. So we’re trying to build an algorithm of tests that bring the full talent of the science of the United States into the reality of the clinic and so bench to clinic.
<53:19>
And so this is what we’re working on for the future. Next slide. So as I promised on both the senators and the governors, this is the United States current platform capacity. Designated as high and low throughput. And what do I mean by that? There’s we’ve talked about the high throughput platforms of Roche and Abbott and others. And then we’ve talked about the gene expert and other machines that may be moderate to lower throughput. I want you to see how it’s distributed through the United States. So these are the current testing platforms available today throughout the United States for COVID-19. And as you heard from Dr. Fauci everything has-
<54:03>
And as you heard from Dr. Fauci, everything has to be working from the swab to the transport media to the laboratory to really get those tests run and the results back to the client. The next slide. So, then we’ve looked at all of the testing capacity from those platforms and this gives you an idea of what that capacity is. The darkest red that you could see like in Texas and New York. Those are states that have lots of different platforms, as you saw on the prior slide and the ability, if you just add up the platforms and the potential for tests, of over a million tests per month. And so, this is what we’re working with each of those States on unlocking that full potential. And how are we doing that? Well, we’re calling on the American Society of Microbiologists. They work closely with 300 lab directors around the country. We talked with them this morning. And the Walter Reed team who develop the entire HIV testing program for the military 35 years ago, called them back into service and they’re calling lab by lab to find out what are the technical difficulties to bring up all the platforms that exist in your lab.
<55:18>
Is it swaps, is it transport media, is it extraction? And I just really want to thank them. They’ve already worked through over 70+ of those laboratories to really understand, and the American Society of Microbiologists and the academic societies of the laboratories are working together to ensure that all of this potential can be unlocked. Next slide, please. We talked a little bit yesterday about new Orleans and the president talked about how many tests New Orleans has done during its outbreak, which you can see now is waning. They’ve done throughout the last month, 27 tests per 1000 New Orleans and Louisianians.
<56:02>
So, 27 per 1000. So, that is a good mark. And that’s what Italy has done about 20 per 1000. So, in evaluating an outbreak and really to get control of this outbreak, they did about 27 tests per 1000. So, using that as a measure, next slide, we then looked at across all the states of the United States of America and looked for states that had ability to do 30 or more tests per 1000 of their habitats in each state. And you can see that across the country except for Oregon and Maine and…
<56:49>
Montana. I worked overseas way too long. Thank you all. So, those are the three states that we’re working on building capacity in. So, this is just to give you a perspective of how seriously we’re taking the testing issue. As we’ve described, we measured every single platform in every single state. We know exactly where they are by geography, by address, by zip code, what their capacity is, what their cumulative capacity is, what their roadblocks are on not ability to run all their full capacity. And we’re addressing those because each one of those is different and you have to address each of them one by one with the governors, with the state and local labs, and with all of the hospitals.
<57:32>
I have not come across one laboratory or one laboratory director or one society that doesn’t want to contribute to solving this issue of testing and ensuring that this testing is available for everyone. There is a strong, just as all the Americans have social distanced, in behind everyone. We don’t often talk about the laboratories, we’ll talk about the nurses and doctors on the front line. Behind all of them are the laboratory technicians and laboratory directors who are coming in every day and putting things together to ensure that every single person that needs to be diagnosed is diagnosed. And hopefully you can see from these slides that really there is capacity out there. It is our job working with the states and having the state in the leadership role and the laboratory directors in the leadership role to provide support to ensure that all the potential for testing in the United States is brought to bear. I just want to end with these are nucleic acid tests. There will never be the ability on a nucleic acid test to do 300 million tests a day or to test everybody before they go to work or to school, but there might be with the antigen test. And so, that’s why there’s a role for nucleic acid test. There’s a role for antibody test and there’s a role for the future development of these other key tests to bring the full ability to the United States. And so, when we finish this, we’ll be talking to all Americans because there’s other tests that other Americans should have. And I think this has really brought to light the importance of diagnosis, and we’ll talk to you further about hepatitis C and TB and other things that we can do to ensure that every American is healthy. Because I think this has really raised the awareness among all Americans about how you do tests for different kinds and different parts of your disease state, and what is long lasting immunity and what may be long lasting immunity, and what does a nucleic acid test and what an antigen test is. And with that, Admiral Gerard.
<01:13:14>
Yeah, that’s a great question and what we will be doing is monitoring how much we have to use in phase one to really help inform phase two, because the really unknown in this to be completely transparent is asymptomatic and asymptomatic spread. And so, if we find that there is a lot of asymptomatic individuals that we find in this active monitoring in what we are very much concerned about, the most vulnerable, then we will have to have increased testing to cover all of those sites
