<19:39>
Well, thanks, Mr. President. It’s a pleasure to be here on behalf of all the Southwest people. My name is Gary Kelly, and again, I want to thank you. I want to thank Secretary Mnuchin. The Cares Act was exactly what we needed. The speed and the scope were just absolutely breathtaking. Before the markets were closed, and after that, the markets opened up, and we’ve been able to do a significant amount of financing. So thank you. It was just the right thing for our economy.
<20:10>
I’ll just mirror, echo what several have already said in terms of the business. We got down to about 2% of the normal traffic volumes, and are up well beyond that, thank goodness. We’re not there, but I’ll take 15% as opposed to a 2%. So we’ve got a long way to go, but the trends are in the right direction.
<20:36>
I think what is important is to make sure that our employees and our customers know that it is safe, and that is our number one priority to make sure that we have a healthy and safe environment. Again, I’ll echo a lot of what Oscar has already covered, but we published the Southwest promise in early May and it addresses cleaning of the airport, deep cleaning of the airplane. We require a mask of our customer facing employees, as well as our customers. We are not booking the airplanes full so that the middle seats are open to allow for physical distancing. And it’s a layered approach. The one thing that we would like to see, and I know that the administration is looking very carefully at this, is to add a health screening at the TSA checkpoint. I think a temperature check like we had today coming into the White House would be very sensible, along with a health declaration. We’re working closely with the TSA on that point.
<21:42>
I think beyond that, I think ongoing tax burden reduction would be very helpful in terms of ticket taxes. I know we’ve got a ticket tax holiday for 2020 as sales begin to pick up and airlines begin to get back on their feet. That could be something worth looking at. And I think for all of us, some sensible form of liability protection, which I know is also a topic would make great sense, but we applaud all that the administration is doing. I think the key indeed is to get treatments for when people are sick, number one, so that they’re confident that they’ll quickly get back on their feet. Then, number two, ultimately getting a vaccine. When that happens I think that things will absolutely take off.
<22:36>
Lastly, again, I wanted to thank you all for the support with the payroll support program. We’ve never had a furlough or a layoff or a pay cut in our history at Southwest, and we sure don’t want to have that now. So thank you again, and we’re going to fight the good fight here.
