<01:36:02>
We talk to the vice president regularly.
<01:36:18>
Most businesses are open in Colorado, pretty much everything except for those social businesses like bars and nightclubs. A few places have restaurants open. We’re working on the rest soon, but offices, manufacturing, salons, pretty much all people are back in a safer way. It’s not the same way it was. I got my hair cut the other day.
<01:36:39>
Thank you. You should have seen it before. It was crazy, what little is left of it.
<01:36:45>
They wore a mask. I wore a mask. So we’re doing it in a safe way. All the stores are back. April 27th, we were one of the states where we wanted to do that in a safe way. People are being responsible. It’s that individual responsibility that’s going to make sure that we can stay on this trajectory. Hopefully restaurants in May, by the end of May. They’re already opening a few places in our state.
<01:37:17>
It’s a big business. It’s also one of the reasons that we got a lot of the virus in our state because people come from all over the world. All over the world.
<01:37:24>
So that’s what led to the spread. So most of the ski season is ending, but we’re actually hopeful. A lot of people don’t know this, but in Colorado we have a few areas that they’re skiing through July 4th. We’re hoping that people will be able to ski again. David knows, the secretary Bernard knows this. In <inaudible 01:37:41> Wolf Creek, maybe Breckenridge, Loveland in June. We’re hoping that people can actually ski again.
<01:37:50>
It’s we really respecting the communities in our state because they have a lot at stake. Nobody is more at stake than … In fact, Jill Ryan who’s with us from Eagle. She’s our secretary of health in Colorado. She was a commissioner in Eagle County, which is where bail is. So they have the most at stake economically and from a health perspective. We’re really respecting what the different communities decide. I think there’ll be some folks that are coming back, spending money in stores. There’ll be other communities that say, “You know what? We have to wait a little bit longer.” It’s been very traumatic for many of those communities because Eagle County for awhile, had the highest infection rate in the country early on.
<01:38:26>
Yeah, early on. <crosstalk 01:38:27>
<01:38:34>
Eagle County has done an amazing job, as has Summit County, Picking County, Aspen. All those areas, they’ve gotten it under control because they acted early. They have great county health departments. They look at the science, they look at the data. Their residents stayed home. In fact, Eagle County was one of the first in our state, along with Mesa County, which secretary Bernard knows well in Grand Junction area, to be able to open up a little bit ahead of some of the other areas in a safer way. In a safer way. So like in Grand Junction, the restaurants are at 25% capacity. So there’s space. We’re looking at ways that people can dine outdoors, sidewalks, and even on a lane of the road because it’s safer to be in that environment. So those are the kinds of things that we think about as we’re just trying to get back to as much normalcy as we can.
<01:39:26>
One of the things we did that Corey introduced us to and worked on, was importing some tests from South Korea. So they’re already being used in our state. We’re also partnering with the vice president and you on some Thermo Fisher tests that we think are coming very soon. We’re getting I think 95,000 <crosstalk 01:39:44>
<01:39:44>
Good.
<01:39:46>
Good. We’re excited because we’re running through those tests from South Korea. That’s what’s so important is the supplies. We have the ability to do it, the labs to do it. You guys sent around the labs. We have the capacity, but it’s getting the tests in. Both with the Thermo Fisher test, the Abbott test, the <inaudible 01:40:03> tests, we’re mixing and matching across. We have 32 free community testing sites across our state. Some of them you drive in, some of them you walk in, but those are free. That’s in addition to the hospitals and doctor’s offices. Of course, you get tested there. But we have 32 free community testing sites <crosstalk 01:40:19>
<01:40:44>
Then we wanted to, for our restaurants who were open throughout this whole period in our state. They just did delivery. They did take out, they did curbside. We even waived some of the laws so they could sell alcohol curbside and sell alcohol delivery, because that extra piece can make the difference between them staying in business or not.
<01:41:03>
You’ll hear from some that are doing okay with it. It doesn’t work for every restaurant and that’s why they need to be open for the in restaurant dining. But for many of them, it’s paid their bills and they’ve gotten through it, and it’s helped them.
<01:41:13>
Not every restaurant, but I hear those stories that it’s helped them get through it. That we’ve been able to make sure they’ve been able to stay in business the whole time.
<01:48:37>
Even with the counties <crosstalk 01:48:38> even within the state. We’re all excited because recreating outdoors is safe and healthy. The flip side is, we’re not yet ready to have all the people from other states and other countries coming in. So that’s the battle.
