<06:38>
I did.
<06:41>
Mr. President, I would say that if you look at the plan that you all had put out for 30 days to stop the spread, the mitigation measures that you promoted in that plan are carried forward in the guidelines for reopening. And so, it’s sort of a seamless way to do it by keeping those mitigation measures in place that you need to as you reopen, especially for the vulnerable population. So really, I would agree with the Vice President that it is carried forward, not just theoretically, but expressly in the document that you gave us. And I thank you.
<21:51>
Yes sir, I did.
<21:54>
I did.
<22:57>
Yes sir, and with a lot of help from our federal partners and the best news that we got as a state, quite frankly and all states got it, was on Monday when Admiral Giroir said that our plans had all been received last Wednesday and they were going to be able to resource the testing kits. So I don’t know about five million for the country, but Louisiana is going to do our part with 200,000 per month. And I think if you extrapolate that out, that comes close to five million-
<23:21>
But I don’t know what time period you’re talking about.
<30:13>
Absolutely.
<30:23>
I know Senator Kennedy worked on the respirator … I’m sorry, the ventilator issue in Senator Cassidy and I worked last night, we’re talking about testing and what we can do going forward with the blueprint, because he and Dr. Redfield had discussed that. But we’ve obviously turned the corner in Louisiana. We’re in a much, much better place than we thought was even possible five or six weeks ago, I will tell you. And that’s because of our local partners and our federal partners and hard work. We’ve had a lot of lessons to learn because there’s no blueprint for this. There’s a blueprint for testing now, but there’s no blueprint for a governor, how do you respond to it? To a pandemic.
<30:57>
So we’ve had a steep learning curve, but I will tell you when we’re in a much better place. The field medical stations that you provided, the Navy medical personnel that you sent to Louisiana, the testing that we had early was the key and that has informed our testing strategy going forward. And we’re excited about the opportunity to have the test kits that we need allocated starting in the month of may to get to the 200,000. We’ll do 43 persons per 1000 that’s what we’re going to get to in Louisiana and we’re going to, we’re going to be in much better shape after that, mister president. We look forward to getting past this. Returning to a newer sense of normalcy, which I don’t think will come officially and fully until we get the vaccine. But we’re looking forward to moving ahead, and just appreciate your work and your contributions to our efforts, they’ve been very helpful.
<31:55>
Well, I’ll just say they’re the best. I’ll tell you what, they’re right there.
<32:06>
Well, what I believe is that with the commitments that were made this past Monday by Admiral Gerard, that having looked at all 50 state plans for testing going forward, that they’ve committed to resourcing Louisiana’s request for 200,000 test kits per month. That gets us to 43 out of every 1,000 tested every month. We believe that that’s sufficient for us to move forward as we are able to start reopening the economy. We know the lab capacity is there. We have Dr. Beu here with me. He’s done a phenomenal job. He’s responsible in large measure for that curve coming down. And so we feel pretty good at that level. And that’s one of the reasons I wanted to be able to come up here today at the president’s invitation to thank him for that commitment because this … I’m only speaking for myself, but having been part of all the calls with the governors, this is the big piece that we’ve been looking for. And with that commitment, we really feel much better about going forward.
