<07:08>
Thank you, Mr. president and good afternoon everyone. I’m very proud of the national guard and all they are doing to help keep our nation safe here at home and abroad. Today, over 83,000 men and women in the national guard are engaged at home and abroad, and 45,000 of those are engaged directly in the COVID-19 response. From running hundreds of testing sites around the country to screening passengers at airports to helping manufacture PPE to a myriad of other tasks, the national guard is there. We know this virus doesn’t treat everyone equally and our senior citizens are at increased risk. In many states, governors have directed national guard members to help sanitize longterm care facilities, nursing homes, giving older citizens and families and caregivers peace of mind that their environments are safe. The Georgia national guard, for instance, has done this, has sanitized over 700 nursing homes and this has been replicated at many places around the nation and continues to grow.
<08:10>
Additionally, food banks and homeless shelters. In normal times, these are often staffed by our volunteers. Many of them are elderly senior citizens here in America. Now, volunteering puts those great Americans at increased risk, so the national guard is helping these Americans stay clear of this risk. In doing that, the national guard is staffing many food banks across the nation where the need for food assistance is increasing across the nation as this virus continues to persist. The national guard is a big part of the United States Army and our United States Air Force, and we’re proud of that. But this role that we play here at home in the homeland, under the command of the governors and our states is distinctly and uniquely national guard business, and we’re very proud of that. So, Mr. president. Thank you for the support that you give our military and the national guard and all the men and women who serve. They are proud to serve our nation. Thank you for letting me talk about the guard today. Thank you, sir.
<09:12>
<inaudible 00:09:11>.
