<02:24>
All right. Everyone. It’s a pleasure to join you today. That was a great announcement from President Trump. I’d like to introduce Dr. Birx right now. She has a wonderful presentation pursuant to reopening American some great data to share with you. So I’ll let her kick this off.
<25:23>
Dr. Birx, if I could have you stay here for just a moment or two.
<25:25>
Zeke, I believe you emailed me a question about nursing homes and testing this morning. If you want to ask it, I’ll have Dr. Birx give you an answer.
<30:13>
One more for Dr. Birx. John?
<32:33>
Thank you very much, Dr. Birx. I know you need to get back to work, so thank you very much. You can do a follow-up with me.
<32:45>
Okay. You can go ahead.
<32:46>
But before I start my portion of the briefing, there are just a few things I wanted to note for you all. Pursuant to those, some of those very encouraging graphs we saw where the states moved from red and orange to green, and we saw the United States increasingly become green. It’s encouraging to see that America’s reopening alongside that-
<33:03>
It’s encouraging to see that America is reopening alongside that with Homebase, data from Homebase, noting that two thirds of America’s small businesses are opening. An Open Table study said Americans are now starting to dine out again. Another Homebase study, 67% of local food and drink businesses are open. Apple is saying Americans are driving and walking at near normal levels, and Google Mobility data reflects the same. So it’s encouraging to see America start to reopen and the great work President Trump has done for the faith community going into this weekend. We have a First Amendment, it’s very important that we protect that and these churches, these synagogues, these mosques, they are essential. And President Trump underscored that.
<33:43>
And finally, before getting started, I wanted to note that the President, as you all are well aware, donates his salary to various initiative and parts across the federal government. And this quarter, he will be donating his salary to HHS, Health and Human Services, to develop new therapies for treating and preventing COVID-19 so that we can safely reopen. Here’s the check amounted to $100,000 that will go directly from President Trump in his paycheck that he does not take, but rather donates it to various noble initiatives, including in honor of COVID this time and those who have passed and the studies underway, he’ll be donating it to HHS. And with that, I will take questions from you all.
<34:30>
Yes.
<34:51>
That’s up to the governors. As it said in our guidance, we note that while many types of gatherings are important for civic and economic wellbeing, religious worship has particularly profound significance to communities and individuals, including as a right protected by the First Amendment. The President wants to see these communities open. Dr. Birx was integral to making these guidelines and they lay out a pretty clear path for faith communities to reopen.
<35:25>
You’re posing a hypothetical and I think we can all hope that we see governors-
<35:29>
You’re posing a hypothetical, though. You’re assuming that governors are going to keep churches shut down and keep mosques shut down and keep synagogues shut down. That is a hypothetical question and we will leave it to these faith communities to reopen.
<35:42>
We’ll leave it to faith communities to reopen, and Kristen, I think we can all hope that this Sunday people are allowed to pray to their Gods across this country. That’s a good thing.
<35:52>
And I’d also note there’s detailed guidance in here about the way that you can clean your facilities, promote social distancing. So this is something that we should all look at and be thankful that we are encouraging these faith communities to reopen and do so in a safe way. And we’ll leave it to parishes to open in a safe fashion. Yes.
<36:18>
The President has been very clear. He wants churches to reopen. He wants them to do it safely. He wants them to do it in accordance with our guidance. It’s laid out very detailed. It’s posted now, so you can all take a look through it. And he wants to see all of those churches open in a safe fashion.
<36:37>
The President has been very clear. He wants to see churches reopen in accordance with his guidelines.
<36:42>
I just gave you an answer. The President would like churches to reopen and do it in accordance with the guidelines.
<36:50>
The President will strongly encourage every governor to allow their churches to reopen. And boy, it’s interesting to be in a room that desperately wants to seem to see these churches and houses of worship stay closed.
<37:06>
Yes.
<37:18>
Jeff, it is safe to reopen your churches if you do so in accordance with the guidelines, which are laid out very stringent detail here about promoting hygiene practices, and there are five bullet points, and cloth face coverings. If social distancing is not possible, it’s recommended intensifying cleanings, promoting social distance. We lay them out meticulously. So I am thankful that we have a President that celebrates the First Amendment, the same amendment that gives you all the ability to ask me questions is there to have the freedom of worship. So moms and pastors can go to their churches, can go to their places of worship, and can celebrate what is a first amendment right in this country, which is to pray to your God and to practice your faith. <Chanel 00:05:04>.
<38:07>
So we should be thankful that there are guidelines to allow us to reengage in that behavior.
<38:18>
To gather in their places of worship. To attend church services. To pray together. And the President has laid out a clear path. The CDC has laid out a clear path for this to take place, for our First Amendment to be exercised in a way that is safe and robust. And that is something that is a good thing, and I’m thankful that we have a President who celebrates the First Amendment and helps it to be celebrated in its fullest and most robust way possible. Chanel.
<39:12>
So, I have not spoken to the President about that, but who I did speak to about President Obama and then masking Michael Flynn, were the men and women in this room. I haven’t spoken to him on that specific point. Have spoken to him about the matter generally. And I laid out a series of questions that any good journalist would want to answer about why people were unmasked, and all sorts of questions. And I just wanted to follow up with you guys on that. Did anyone take it upon themselves to pose any questions about Michael Flynn and unmasking the President Obama spokesperson? Oh, not a single journalist has posed that question. Okay.
<39:45>
So I would like-
<39:47>
… to lay out a series of questions and perhaps if I write them out in a slide format, maybe we’re visual learners and you guys will follow up with journalistic curiosity. So number one, why did the Obama administration use opposition research funded by a political organization and filled with foreign dirt to surveil members of the Trump campaign?
<40:09>
Number two, why was Lieutenant General Michael Flynn unmasked? Not by the Intel community entirely, but by Obama’s Chief of Staff, by the former Vice President, Joe Biden, by Susan Rice, by the Treasury Secretary. I mean, this is extraordinary. And you know, if it were political appointees in the Trump administration, I can guarantee you I’d have questions in my inbox right now, but apparently Obama’s spokesperson does not.
<40:35>
Why was Flynn’s identity leaked in a criminal act? It is a criminal act to leak the identity of Michael Flynn to the press, but it happened. Where are the questions to Obama’s spokesperson? Because my team would be running around this building should this have happened under the Trump administration.
<40:51>
Why did the DOJ, Sally Yates, learn about the unmasking from President Obama? So much for going by the book as Susan Rice said three times. Thou doth protest too much, Susan Rice.
<41:05>
And then finally, question number five. Why did James Clapper, John Brennan, Samantha Power and Susan Rice privately admit under oath they had no evidence of collusion while saying the opposite publicly? It’s a long weekend. You guys have three days to follow up on those questions, and I certainly hope the next time I ask, some hands go up because Obama’s spokesperson should be asked those questions. Because President Trump’s spokespeople certainly would be.
