<35:08>
Sure. Thank you, Mr. President. So good afternoon, everyone. And I want to provide an update on DOD’s coronavirus efforts. As we continue to focus on our three priorities, that’s first of all, protecting our personnel and their families, second, safeguarding our national security mission capabilities and third, of course, supporting the administration’s whole of government approach.
<35:27>
First of all though, I do want to assure the American people that the United States Military remains ready and capable of defending the country and our interests abroad. Now with that, the department is leaning forward in our response to COVID-19. We have issued international and domestic travel restrictions to all DOD personnel and families that should dramatically reduce potential exposure to the virus. Those have been in place for some time now.
<35:52>
As I announced yesterday, the Department of Defense will make available up to 5,000,000 N95 respirator masks and other personal protective equipment from our own strategic reserves to the Department of Health and Human Services for distribution. The first one million masks will be available immediately. We are also prepared to distribute to HHS up to 2000 operational deployable ventilators for use as needed.
<36:15>
Yesterday, I was at Fort Dietrich, Maryland, which is probably the military’s premier research institute where I got updated on the incredible work our people are doing as part of the inter agency team to work on vaccines and therapeutics. They are making great progress there.
<36:29>
We also have announced that we’ve certified our 16th lab or will soon certified our 16th lab to help with processing tests from across the country.
<36:40>
Additionally, I have directed, as the president mentioned that, the hospital ships, Mercy and Comfort be prepared to deploy to increase the nation’s medical capacity. And we have also alerted a variety of filled and expeditionary hospitals to be prepared to deploy as well as needed based on direction from the commander-in-chief.
<36:57>
Today, leadership from the Army Corps of Engineers is in New York meeting with Governor Cuomo and his team. I spoke with Governor Cuomo yesterday and other governors. I will be speaking to more in the coming days to make sure that they know what DOD could provide through our system to address their needs.
<37:13>
In my conversations with governors and members of Congress about DOD’s resources, I’ve made it clear that we will continue to support the administration’s comprehensive efforts and the country every step of the way while ensuring our nation’s security remains the top priority.
<37:28>
I want to conclude by thanking again, all of our service members and their families who have been affected by this outbreak. They are all great heroes. We are continued to support them throughout this. We are all in this together. Thank you all very much.
