<13:15>
Thank you Mr. President. From early in this effort, president Trump has called forth a whole of government response to the Coronavirus epidemic in America. And by that, the president made clear when he asked me to lead the white house coronavirus task force, not merely a whole of the federal government, but a full partnership with state and local governments across the country. And today we renewed that with our latest conference call with governors all across America. We’ve met with them today specifically to speak about the progress that our governors are making, expanding testing across the country. And we were pleased to hear about the extraordinary and rapid progress that governors are making.
<13:59>
At the outset of the call where we had more than 50 of our nation’s governors, we of course had Pete Gainer of FEMA report on progress. More than 35,000 national guard stood up, 5,000 active duty military deployed in 10 States and we were also pleased to report that FEMA, HHS, and the private sector have coordinated the delivery of shipments to States around the country, including nearly 67 million N95 masks, 105 million surgical masks, surgical gowns, shields, gloves, more than 10,000 ventilators and more than 8,000 federal field medical station beds.
<14:42>
Beyond the report that we provided to the governors, we assured them that at the president’s direction, this is a one team, one mission. We’ve made it clear to the governors that we know we’re all in this together and the partnership that we have forged together really begins with mitigation efforts. It moves to making sure our healthcare workers have the support they need, but also testing is in the forefront of all of our minds. We’re working to make it possible for every governor to access the existing capacity to enable our States to be able to reopen responsibly under the phased approach that the president unveiled one week ago.
<15:23>
A little bit of context, you may recall that one month ago all of the testing that had been done in America, 80,000 Americans had been tested, but as of this morning, 5.1 million Americans have been tested for the Coronavirus.
<15:39>
A quick reminder to our fellow Americans, and this was something from our scientists today at the task force, we reminded governors of this as well, that as testing increases dramatically across the country, cases will increase as well, but people should not be discouraged by those numbers. We are looking at very positive trends in hospitalization, in emergency room entrances and we continue to see, as we’ve said at this podium every day over the last several weeks, we continue to see positive progress, not just on the West coast, but even where the Coronavirus epidemic has most deeply impacted in areas of greater New York city area, New Orleans, Detroit, and elsewhere. On our nearly two hour phone call today with those governors, we heard of the progress governors were making in implementing the resources that we’ve been working to provide them, not just the medical equipment but also as you recall that map a week ago that showed where all of the equipment is all across the country in all 50 States.
<16:49>
Governor Cuomo joined us for the call today. He spoke favorably of his meeting here at the white house, Mr. President, and his recognition that testing is a partnership between the federal and state governments. As governor Cuomo said today, he understood that the federal government works with national manufacturing and supply chain and the governors deal with the labs to expand and implement testing at the state level. Governor Cuomo also explained how he’s using his licensing authority as a governor to stand up the more than 300 labs that can do Coronavirus testing in the state of New York and we congratulated him for his leadership in that, urged other governors to use their authority similarly.
<17:34>
In Tennessee, governor Bill Lee told us that he’s deployed the national guard to stand up more than 20 drive through test sites. They’re testing 10,000 people a day. They’ve already tested more than 130,000 people in Tennessee and they expect to surge another 15,000 people in testing sites this weekend in Tennessee.
<17:53>
Massachusetts in an area we’re continuing to watch very closely as cases have not yet stabilized, and governor Charlie Baker, he thanked us, Mr president, for the army Corps of engineers deployment of four field hospitals. He described how they have rapidly expanded testing all across Massachusetts. We commended him for that and the beginning of March he said they had just one testing site in the state of Massachusetts, and now thanks to governor Charlie Baker’s team, they have more than 30 testing sites.
<18:24>
Minnesota governor, Tim waltz, reflected on the call today about the partnership he’s forged with the Mayo clinic, the university of Minnesota and state health department. They’re actually collaborating to perform 20,000 molecular tests and 15,000 antibody tests per day, and I’m looking forward to traveling to the Mayo clinic in Minnesota on Tuesday of next week to learn firsthand from the governor about their efforts across the state to expand testing.
<18:52>
Iowa governor, Kim Reynolds, gave us an update, Mr. President on her progress. She’s literally tripling testing capacity in her state through a partnership with the private sector, with the university of Iowa and Iowa state university. She also launched the testiowa.com website, which actually creates an access point for people to fill out a questionnaire about whether or not their symptoms or circumstances would justify a test. She said in the first 72 hours, 150,000 people went to the test site to receive an assessment and Iowa testing 4,500 people a day in their state.
<19:32>
In Indiana, I spoke also today with governor Eric Holcomb. They’ve tested 72,000 Hoosiers to date. They’re adding drive through sites. They’ll have 10 drive through sites established by the state of Indiana before the end of the weekend and as other governors have done governor Holcomb last week opened up half of their elective surgery sites and hospitals across the state and they’ll be opening up the balance of their elective surgery sites the next week.
<20:01>
In Maryland, another area that we’re watching very closely, governor Larry Hogan expressed appreciation for federal support as he’s continuing to scale testing. He had been in touch with the National Institute of Health, which is opening up its laboratories for Maryland to do testing and we were also able to confirm to him that Walter Reed hospital’s laboratory capacity is available to Maryland.
<20:23>
And in Utah, Mr. President, governor Gary Herbert told us that he actually diverted 1200 state employees to do contact tracing in their state. In the last 36 hours, 23,000 residents have also signed up for what they’re calling their Healthy Together app and they have 50 different testing locations across Utah and have tested 82,000 people in the state already.
<20:48>
Other state examples, Mr. President, were just as inspiring. Governor Phil Murphy of New Jersey has forged a partnership with Rutgers university, working closely with the FDA. They’ve authorized a saliva based test that is being deployed just at that site that’s expanding their ability to track what continues to be a very challenging environment in New Jersey.
<21:13>
And governor Mike Parsons of Missouri, Mr. President also told us how they’d worked with Google marketplace to create an online portal for more than 200 companies in Missouri who have repurposed their manufacturing lines to create medical supplies to meet their need within the state.
<21:33>
And in Connecticut, governor Ned Lamont, spoke about a positive trend lines in Connecticut which has been really at the center of the outbreak in the greater New York area. But he also said they were hoping to double testing over the next week.
<21:48>
Mr. President, that’s just a sampling of what we had today and I know it’s an encouragement to you and I trust it’s an encouragement to people all across the country that at your direction we are implementing a testing strategy that is supported at the federal level, but it is deployed and managed at the state level. And we want to express our appreciation to every governor across the country that are standing up all of those labs that are available that are working with us and our supply chain personnel to make sure that the reagents and the swabs and the equipment is there to be able to process the tests, and we’re going to continue to increase testing dramatically in the weeks ahead.
<22:30>
So we want to thank our governors for the progress that we’re making on testing and for their role and in urging their citizens to practice the kind of mitigation and social distancing efforts that are really making real progress. We’re one team, one mission that’s to save lives and because of of all the efforts that have been made at the state level and a strong guidance that’s come from the federal level because of the amazing healthcare workers across this country and our first responders, but mostly I believe because of the cooperation of millions of Americans who’ve put the guidance into practice. Their cooperation and their prayers have set us on a path where we are slowing the spread, we are protecting our most vulnerable. I truly do believe the day will soon come when we will heal our land and we’ll be able to re-open America and put this great nation back to work. Thank you Mr. President.
