<37:14>
Thank you Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today, but earlier in the day the President convened all the key elements of our supply chain team in the oval office for an update on the progress that we’ve been making working literally around the clock to make sure that our healthcare workers, the people on the front lines have the personal protective equipment and also the ventilators to be able to meet this moment. And today you’re going to hear from the people that are literally working. Working each and every day to make that happen.
<37:54>
Dr Deborah Birx is also with us. She’ll reflect in a few moments on the progress that we’re making analyzing the data. Each and every day we’re looking county by county, state by state consulting with governors and local health officials.
<38:12>
At the present moment more than 1.3 million tests have been performed, and as you all are aware, some 236,000 Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus. With now the losses over 5,000 Americans and our hearts are with their families. Beyond that, we have been focusing not just on ensuring the testing is occurring, but that the supplies are flowing. As the President just announced, he made a decision today to deploy thousands of N95 masks directly to New York city’s public hospitals. And our team will speak about that in just a moment.
<38:51>
And also the President took the unprecedented step to direct the department of defense to use military healthcare personnel to operate all COVID facilities at the Javits Center in New York, at the convention center in New Orleans and at the convention center in Dallas. And we’ve informed each of the governors of those States today that their requests, we were making those military medical personnel available to operate in all COVID facility.
<39:23>
But we would emphasize to people in that community who believe you’ve been impacted or have contracted to coronavirus contact your local healthcare provider. We anticipate in the New York area that your local healthcare provider will make the decision whether you are transferred to the Javits center. And in all cases, simply look to the guidance of your local governors about how best to receive the care that every American is entitled to have.
<39:55>
Beyond that, let me say that we have been working through FEMA’s acquisition process, not only to deploy but to gather up personal protective equipment. And in just a few moments you will hear from Admiral John Polowczyk about the extraordinary progress that we have made in deploying not just the strategic national stockpile, but also in identifying on the commercial marketplace around America and around the world literally millions of N95 masks, surgical gowns, gloves, protective equipment. And at this point we’ve distributed some 7,600 ventilators. And you’ll hear today specifically about the States that have received those ventilators.
<40:43>
This team is truly acted in an inspiring way. And literally is working with dozens and dozens of people at the FEMA stabilization task force to make sure that we are leaving no stone unturned to find the supplies we need.
<40:58>
Let me also say today you’re going to hear from Jared Kushner, a Senior Advisor to the President of the United States, but someone that the White House Coronavirus Task Force directed to work with FEMA on supply chain issues. And in recent weeks he’s been leading a working group in conjunction with FEMA that literally has identified millions of medical supplies around the nation, and around the world, and we’re grateful for his efforts and his leadership. Finally, you’ll hear from Peter Navarro who will explain the action the President took today using the Defense Production Act.
<41:37>
But as you hear details today about medical supplies that have been distributed, those that have been purchased, those that we’re making available ventilators distributed to hospitals and those that are available, let me just remind every American that you can make a difference in ensuring that every patient has the treatment that they deserve. Every healthcare provider, every doctor and nurse and nurse’s assistant has the protective gear to provide the care that you would want your family to have by putting into practice, the President’s 30 days To Slow The Spread. I mean we want you to take to heart the President’s Coronavirus Guidelines for America.
<42:20>
First, to protect your own health, to protect the health of your family, to protect the health of your community. We know so many people are asymptomatic. And people that literally don’t know they have the Coronavirus but have the ability to infect others. We want you to put these guidelines into practice. Social distancing, using a drive through at a restaurant, washing your hands on a regular basis.
<42:42>
But as we focus today on supplies, make no mistake about it. Every American can make sure that our health care workers and more importantly Americans that are struggling with Corona virus have the equipment to support their treatment by putting these principles into practice. Because the fewer Americans that contract the Coronavirus, the fewer Americans will have to enter our healthcare system. And that’ll continue to preserve the capacity in our healthcare economy.
<43:12>
So we thank the millions of Americans who’ve responded in the first two days of 30 Days To Slow The Spread. And I’m just absolutely confident that in the days ahead, every American’s going to do their part for your health, your family’s health, the health of your community, and to ensure the strength and vitality of the greatest healthcare system in the world.
<43:33>
With that, let me introduce a Jared Kushner to speak about the work that he’s been doing, working with FEMA on ensuring a strong supply chain to meet this moment. Jared.
<57:46>
<inaudible 00:57:49>.
<57:53>
Be very specific about that.
<58:00>
Let me help me be clear on it if I can, what the Jared announced what the Admiral just unpacked is that pallets are being loaded right now to send 200,000 N95 masks to New York City to the public health hospitals.
<58:17>
All the healthcare workers help us on the way.
<01:22:11>
Right. Thank you, Mr. President. As I said yesterday, the president has put a priority on ensuring that no American has to worry about the cost of coronavirus testing. And we’ve been working every day to make sure that Americans don’t have to worry about the cost of treatment. And at this point, the White House coronavirus task force is working on a proposal for the president to use some of the $100 billion that we’re making available to hospitals to compensate the hospitals directly for any coronavirus treatment that they provide to uninsured Americans. We’re working out the details of that. The president will make a final decision tomorrow. We expect an announcement.
<01:22:54>
But the president’s made it very clear. We don’t want any American to worry about the cost of getting a test or the cost of getting treatment and we’ve expanded coverage through Medicaid. We’ve expanded coverage through Medicare. Health insurance companies around the country, including Blue Cross just today announced that all of their members will be waiving all co payments on coronavirus treatment. But for those some 30 odd million uninsured Americans, the president has directed the coronavirus task force to find a way to make sure that they know we will find a way to pay for your coronavirus treatment and the president will be addressing that and announcing that tomorrow.
Journalist 6: <01:23:39>
<crosstalk 01:23:39> Mr. President, a point of clarification and then a follow up question. Yesterday you said that you spoke to Florida governor Ron DeSantis before he issued his stay at home order. Did you advise him to issue that order?
<01:36:52>
Yes.
Journalist 11: <01:36:53>
And when, sir?
<01:36:54>
In the days ahead, we’re currently working through the task force seeking the consultation advice of the CDC, our top health experts, and we’ll be bringing forward the guidance from the CDC in the next several days.
<01:53:54>
We’re literally tracking hospitalization cases on a daily basis, interacting with governors and health systems, and that informs our supply chain decisions.
