<57:54>
You all can come up if you want. That would be great. Well, good evening everyone and to our fellow Americans southwest, good afternoon. We find ourselves in the midst of a very tough week for Americans, in areas most impacted by the coronavirus. The New York City area, New Jersey, Louisiana, continue to focus resources and attention on those areas. And I know that the hearts and prayers of the American people are with all of those communities. But in the wake of more than 1.9 million tests, we see more than 400,000 Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus and sadly, we’ve lost more than 14,000. We grieve but as the good book says, we do not grieve like those who have no hope. In this very special week, I know that the faith of millions of Americans is a comfort to them. The president and I spoke to more than 10,000 faith leaders and we were able to express to them our gratitude for the way that they’re strengthening the communities that they serve.
<59:13>
But we also find hope in the numbers that Dr Birx will continue to reflect on today. For as Dr Fauci explained yesterday and in the days before, the losses as grievous as they are that we are seeing today are a reflection of people that contracted the coronavirus in many cases before strong mitigation steps were taken. Before the guidelines for America fully took hold. The cases, however, and the new cases and the hospitalizations are in fact a reflection of the results of what the American people are doing. And I want to echo the president’s and Dr. Birx’ statements today about the extraordinary work the American people are doing, because we continue to see great progress, low and steady numbers in the States of California and Washington and in the New York metropolitan area, New Jersey, New Orleans metro area, Detroit and Chicago and Boston. We continue to see evidence of stabilization that should be an encouragement to every American.
<01:00:36>
An encouragement that we may be reaching the point where the impact of the coronavirus is beginning to level off, but it also should be an encouragement to every American to keep doing what we are all doing. Heed the guidance of your state and local authorities, and for every American, continue to put the White House coronavirus guidelines for America into effect. An area of particular concern we were briefed on this morning is the city of Philadelphia. I spoke today to governor Tom Wolf and as we begin to see early trend lines in Philadelphia, I assured him that we were going to continue to flow resources and support to that community. But our message to the people of the Philadelphia area is now more than ever, practice the social distancing so that Philadelphia, and to some extent even Pittsburgh, do not have to endure what other communities before them have had to endure.
<01:01:48>
Also today, at the president’s direction, we hosted a conference call with every Republican member of the House of Representatives and every Democrat member of the House of Representatives. And we express our appreciation to speaker Nancy Pelosi and leader Kevin McCarthy for convening these forums. We brought together key members of our task force team. The Secretary of the Treasury discussed the progress that we’ve made on paycheck protection. He reported to members of Congress that so far we’re working with more than 3,600 lenders across the country and we’ve dispersed more than $98 billion in forgivable loans. Now, these are loans that if small businesses accept this money and use it to keep people on their payroll over the next two months, they’ll be completely forgiven. The Treasury tonight will be issuing a new FAQ, Frequently Asked Questions document, that will also make it clear that lenders may use their own closing documents for completing loan applications and information is available at treasury.gov and sba. gov as well.
<01:03:02>
Dr Birx and Dr Fauci briefed the members of Congress today on the latest data. They’ll both reflect on that in a moment. We also had Admiral John <inaudible 01:03:11> talk about our control tower system and the extraordinary flow of supplies to critical areas across the country. We also briefed on the disbursement of resources to local hospitals of Seema Verma and gave them an update on what the secretary of state spoke about today. Remarkable to think, more than 50,000 Americans brought back home through nearly 500 flights and we thank the members of Congress who have worked with the state department to identify family members and groups that found themselves stranded overseas and we were grateful for that. In addition to our interaction with members of Congress today, we spoke with the president of the Henry Ford Hospital, Bob Riney. It is the Henry Ford Hospital that is conducting a clinical trial for hydrochloroquine.
<01:04:02>
He expressed great enthusiasm for the work that they had done. They had a rather overwhelming response to the initial trial, which is beginning this week with 3000 people taking the hydrochloroquine or a placebo so they can match it. But what the president of the Henry Ford Hospital told me is they’d like to expand the test. I put him in touch with Steve Hahn and the FDA and we’ll be adding several more clinical trial paths to look at impacts on particular demographic groups, including seniors and minority populations, and more on that in just a moment. In the category of supplies and support, the president as of today has signed 52 major disaster declarations. Vermont was the latest approved and states have stood up some 27,000 national guard that are aiding in coronavirus response. On the critical subject of ventilators, we do have currently more than 8,000 ventilators in our strategic national stockpile and distributed more to the Navajo Nation out of Colorado today.
<01:05:15>
But also today, we received the good news that the first delivery of newly manufactured ventilators from General Electric and Hamilton arrived at the strategic national stockpile and as the president said, we’ll be adding newly manufactured ventilators to our resources to be available as the coronavirus epidemic reaches critical communities around the country. On the subject of the Airbridge, four flights scheduled arrived today, primarily focused on gloves for our incredible healthcare workers. One flight alone had nearly 19 million gloves, another 8 million, another 15 million and the like. And the American people I think would be very proud to see this vast array of now well more than 50 flights that are bringing in supplies from all over the world, and again working through FEMA, we’re directing those resources with the guidance of our scientific experts to the communities most in need. As we announced yesterday, the White House coronavirus task force has requested that CDC and our team assemble data on the unique impact that we’re seeing reported on African Americans from the coronavirus.
<01:06:38>
Dr Fauci spoke about it yesterday and we’ll reflect on his perspective on that as well. Tomorrow with the surgeon general and others on the White House team, we’ll be speaking with leaders in the African American community and as Dr Fauci will reflect, there have been historic challenges in the healthcare of the African African American communities. Particularly in our inner cities and now more than ever, I’ll just say from my heart to all of our African American family members now more than ever, practice the guidelines. Look after those most vulnerable people that have underlying serious health conditions. It’s more important than ever that we all put those principles into practice. Finally today, after we hear from Dr Fauci and Dr. Birx, I’m going to ask Dr Redfield to step up because today the CDC will be publishing new guidance on essential critical workers who have been exposed to COVID-19 but don’t have any symptoms. Don’t have a temperature and don’t have any reason to believe that they have the coronavirus.
<01:07:58>
The present moment. The guidance is that if you have been in proximity to someone who did test positive for the coronavirus, that the guidance of CDC is that even with essential critical workers in industries from healthcare to food supply, that we ask people to stay home for 14 days. The new guidance tonight will hopefully make it clear that there would be an opportunity for those people playing such an incredible role in our nation’s response to be able to return to work and to do so safely. And finally, let me just say again how inspired we are with the response of the American people to the coronavirus epidemic. Each and every day, as we see the beginnings of encouraging news, the low and steady numbers in California and Washington State and now beginning to see numbers of hospitalizations are going down and new cases leveling and in some cases going down.
<01:09:02>
We all hope it is the beginning of a trend, but we also hope it’s an encouragement to every American to keep doing what you’re doing. Not just for your own health and for the health of your loved ones, but because we want to make sure that all of us are doing our part to make sure that the fewest number of Americans possible are exposed to the coronavirus. Given the fact that this I remind you is three times more contagious than the flu. Each of us has a role to play in slowing the spread. That’s what the 30 days to slow the spread is all about. It’s about protecting your health. It’s about making sure that that our healthcare workers and our healthcare system is not overwhelmed by the coronavirus and ultimately it is about saving lives. We talk about the numbers and I’m going to ask Dr. Birx to come up and reflect on them, but I think all of us know this is one American at a time. It’s one heartbreak at a time and having lost loved ones in my life, just like everyone here and everyone looking on, we want to work every day to make that number of losses the lowest possible and it will take all of us to do it and to keep doing exactly what we’re doing through today. Dr. Birx.
<01:16:38>
Great. Dr Fauci, please.
<01:20:21>
That’s great. Dr Redfield.
<01:22:46>
Those will be available at cdc.gov and thank you Dr. Redfield and questions for anyone on the panel. Please.
<01:23:07>
I think the focus has been to make sure that our healthcare workers in our healthcare system has the supply and with regard to what we’re gathering from literally around the world and for manufacturers in the United States is first being deployed to states and to hospital systems, but I must tell you that whether it be the Hanes company or other companies, we’re seeing manufacturers in America that are recognizing the growing demand for masks by the American people and are spinning out production literally by the hour, but our focus, our continuing focus is on making sure that healthcare workers have the personal protective equipment to do their job safely and provide the level of care every one of us would want.
<01:24:20>
I’ve not spoken to the governor directly, but I’ll reach out this evening certainly. In our conference call with governors this week, we spoke to them about the approach that we are taking. Traditionally governors are accustomed to when a hurricane strikes the Gulf Coast, when wildfires strike out west, when flooding or tornadoes hit in places like Indiana, you’re accustomed to have a declaration of emergency approved and then resources flow from FEMA. In this situation as we deal with a nationwide declaration and an epidemic, what we’ve explained to governors is that what President Trump has directed is that we leave no stone unturned to find resources around the country and around the world including ventilators and we make sure as the coronavirus epidemic impacts individual areas, that the healthcare workers and the families and the patients impacted have what they need when they need it.
<01:25:34>
What I would say to the people of Kansas is that we’re looking at their numbers every day, just as in the case of every state in the country and we’re going to work our hearts out to make sure that as the coronavirus cases emerge, and we hope that through the great work that Kansas has done on social distancing and mitigation, the people of Kansas have done a remarkable job, that we may well be to a place where their existing resources and capacities are present, but we want people to know that taking the counsel of Dr. Birx and our entire healthcare team, we’re focusing just as we did first in Seattle, California, and now in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Louisiana, the Detroit area, the Chicago area, we’re going to make sure that those resources go in that order.
<01:26:45>
Well, the president’s coronavirus guidelines for America ask every American to avoid any gathering of more than 10 people and that’s on the advice of all of best scientific experts as a way that we can slow the spread, but as we’ve made clear to every governor, we defer to our governors and what they believe is the best and appropriate practice in their states and we’ll support those local decisions.
<01:27:22>
Well, I can speak to that just… Then I’ll invite Dr. Birx, Dr Fauci to come forward. We do have… I believe we will have roughly four separate clinical trials underway studying hydroxychloroquine, but it’s important to remember that, as the president’s made the point many times, the FDA has approved what’s called off label use and so in consulting with your physician, if your physician determines it’s appropriate to write a prescription for hydroxychloroquine, we’re working today to make that available across the country. It’s broadly available today as an anti malaria medication, but we’re working around the country and internationally to increase that supply, but we are studying it in at least four different clinical trials and Dr. Fauci can speak to that.
<01:29:16>
Next, please.
<01:31:08>
What I can say is that we’ve been watching Denver very closely and like many of the other key areas that I touched on, we’re beginning to see some encouraging news, but in our interactions with the governor and with local officials and with the senator, we’ve made an effort not only in Colorado but around the country to be particularly responsive to states where we’ve seen a growth in cases, but I’m going to let Dr. Burk speak to that as well. There’s a literally beginning with New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Louisiana, the Detroit area in Michigan, Chicago area. There’s a series of other cities including Denver that we’ve been watching very carefully and while we’re beginning to see some encouraging news, we want healthcare workers in those communities to know for certain that we’re going to move resources into those areas where we see significant outbreak.
<01:33:55>
We’ll be attending church right in the living room at the Vice President’s residence where we’ve been attending for the last several weeks. The advantage is we get to go to our home church in Indiana.
<01:34:14>
I think the President’s coronavirus guidelines for America are very clear that during this 30 days, we are calling on every American in every state first to listen to your state and local authorities, but right after that, to avoid gatherings of more than 10 people, avoid unnecessary travel, use drive through at restaurant instead of going into the restaurant, we are as these health experts have told you, seeing real evidence that we’re slowing the spread, that these mitigation efforts are having a strong impact and tonight as many people even at this hour on the east coast are beginning to sit down to a Seder dinner. It’s the beginning of Passover and with Easter celebrations this Sunday, we just want to encourage every American to heed the counsel of the guidelines, put those into effect and know that in so doing will hasten the day, will hasten the day that we put the coronavirus in the past and we reopened our country.
<01:36:13>
That’s fair question. You might also speak about the converse.
<01:39:54>
Thank you. That’s a really important question and it underscores the fact the Dr. Birx pointed out, that with this new tests, Abbott Laboratories, FEMA’s been busy distributing to states around the country. We purchased 1200 of these machines to be able to do these tests, but there’s 18,000 all across America. Let me just renew our call to all the hospital administrators and lab operators around America to go and identify those Abbott Laboratories machines and know that that’s… While we’ve already tested more than 1.9 million Americans, our short term objective is to test as many Americans as possible as we see the coronavirus epidemic emerge in areas around the country. We want to surge those resources. We want states that haven’t seen a significant outbreak to have access to that 15 minute test and ultimately as we go forward, once we…
<01:41:03>
I think president Trump said today, nobody wants to open the country up more than him and I can attest to that, but we’re going to open it up when we can do so responsibly, putting the health of America first and to reopen America and to stay open America. We’re working around the clock to continually expand the kind of testing that will allow us to do what these experts call surveillance so that in every state in the country, once we put this chapter of coronavirus behind us, we hope and trust sooner rather than later, that when next fall comes that we will have a vast array so that CDC can do what it so well and that is when a particular disease emerges, CDC surges personnel, does contact tracing, isolates that individual. So we’re just really calling on all of our partners in the laboratories and in hospitals around the country to identify those Abbott Laboratory machines and help us continue to scale up and expand testing.
<01:42:11>
Every American, let me again just say thank you. Thank you for what you’re doing. We are in the midst of a week of heartache and I want to assure every American who has suffered loss, that we’re with you. We’re praying for you and your families and we’ll continue to work our hearts out to make sure these incredible healthcare workers who are inspiring every single one of us all across the country every day, have the resources and the support and the equipment to do their job safely, to provide the level of care that any American family would want for their loved one, and to be able to go home safely to their families. The key to all of that, the key for the next 22 days is 30 days to slow the spread and I just encourage every American, if you haven’t done so recently, go to coronavirus.gov, print off your own copy, pick up the phone and call a friend and just tell them that you heard from the experts, you heard from the president and our team that we’re beginning to see glimmers of hope.
<01:43:25>
Extraordinary progress in California, in Washington as a tribute to the people of those states and the leadership of those states, but the beginning of stabilization and perhaps even leveling in New York and New Jersey and Louisiana and Detroit is a testament to the people of those communities, to the leadership of those states, but understand that every one of us has a role to play to protect the most vulnerable among us and to save lives by putting the guidelines into practice, just like you’ve been doing every day since they were first announced. So thank you all and we’ll see you tomorrow.
