<22:22>
Well, good afternoon everyone. At the present moment, we have now cleared a more than two million tests across the country, and I’m pleased to report we’re testing more than 100,000 people a day now, but we’re working around the clock to scale up the new types of tests that the FDA has approved in record time. Every American can be confident that we’ll continue to build out that structure going forward for the weeks ahead and the months ahead. The present moment, there’s more than 450,000 Americans who have tested positive for the coronavirus, and sadly more than 16,000 Americans have lost their lives. And as President Trump just said, our hearts go out to the families that have lost loved ones and I want to assure you that all of us working at every level understand these are not numbers, these are lives and are our heartfelt condolences during this heartbreaking week go out to every American family that’s lost a loved one to the coronavirus.
<23:41>
It has been a difficult week, but as Dr. Birx will reflect in just a few moments, as we look at the data literally on a county by county basis every day, we continue to see evidence that that, in areas where the epidemic has impacted most, the greater New York City area, Louisiana, the Detroit Metro, the Denver Metro, we continue to see evidence of stabilization, and it appears, as Dr. Birx suggests that we are close to the peak in each of those areas so impacted. We also express gratitude and and appreciation for the people of California and Washington state who continue to be low and steady and the number of cases that are emerging there. We’re watching the Chicago Metro area, we’re watching the Boston Metro area, and as Dr. Birx will discuss, we just continue to urge every American to put into practice the president’s coronavirus guidelines, because all evidence indicates from the west coast what we’re beginning to see in major outbreak areas on the east coast, it’s working, America, and it’s working because you’re doing it and we encourage you onward in that.
<25:06>
Now today, the White House coronavirus that task force met, but most of the team also met with Republicans and Democrats in two separate conference calls of the United States Senate. Secretary Mnuchen, our health experts, Admiral Polovchec, Dr. Hahn joined us as we discussed a broad range of issues. The treasury secretary touched on the paycheck protection program now in day five. Reporting $125 billion has been approved so far. 30,000 new individual users and 3,900 lenders are participating. We also discussed that the treasury department will issue a new frequently asked question document tonight, an FAQ as they’re known, to clarify how seasonal businesses can participate in the paycheck protection program as well.
<26:05>
With regard to direct payments to Americans, the treasury secretary assured senators, and we assure every American that we remain on a timetable where the first payments and direct deposits will go out by the end of next week. For the average family of four, that’ll be $3,400 in direct financial support, and will no doubt be welcome news. Anyone who is interested in additional information on any of these programs can go to treasury.gov or sba.gov.
<26:38>
Since we last spoke, I spoke with a Governor Laura Kelly of Kansas, Governor Andy Beshear of Kentucky, also spoke to governors of Texas and Rhode Island. I assured each one of them as we continue to work through the process of making sure that we distribute the resources at the point of the need, at president Trump’s direction, our objective working through FEMA is to make sure that States have what they need, when they need it, and to see the progress that we’ve made, the president just reflected on in New York and New Jersey, Louisiana and the partnership we forged with governors in those states, California and Washington state before, <inaudible 00:27:21> gives confidence to governors and leaders of states across the country, most importantly our dedicated healthcare workers that we will be there to meet that need a should that a need arise.
<27:33>
The present moment, FEMA reports the president has approved 54 major disaster declarations and states around the country have stood up 29,000 National Guard, 11,000 of which are fully funded by the federal government under title 32. Also speaking of our military, at the present moment, we receive a report today from the department of defense that 4,100 active duty military medical personnel have been deployed in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and they are personnel that are working on the ground at the Javits Center, working of course at the USNS comfort ship. But because at the present moment, the utilization of both of those temporary facilities has been fairly modest, the DOD actually worked with the city of new in New York to establish what amounts to a uniform temp service. They call it the bullpen. And today they literally deployed from the ship and from the Javits Center, 75 medical personnel to relieve dedicated healthcare workers within the hospital system in the city of New York, and we’ll continue to do that.
<28:49>
We’re going to make sure those federal temporary hospital and Javits Center is fully staffed. We’ll make sure the USNS Comfort is staffed, but the physicians, those military personnel are going to be also be deployed across the city to bring much needed relief to our healthcare workers in our system. From the VA standpoint, we’ve opened up VA facilities in New York city, East Orange, New Jersey, Detroit, Michigan, and we are opening up the VA facility to coronavirus patients in Shreveport, Louisiana. Finally, I mentioned that today we exceeded more than two million tests that had been performed across the country. And also literally working with the US public health service, states around the country have stood up hundreds of drive through testing sites and just this week FEMA and the US public health service announced that we will give an option to states to transition from a federal testing site, dozens of which had been assembled around the country to a state managed site.
<29:54>
I want to emphasize that this is an option. We believe it gives states greater flexibility to style sites or managed sites in areas that they think are most important, but we’re also processing requests for continued federal participation in states from New Jersey to Louisiana to Illinois, Colorado and Texas, and we want to assure people in communities all across the country that we’ll continue to partner with states to the extent that they prefer us to be a part of it. With regard to the Airbridge, three flights were scheduled to arrive today in Chicago and New York in Dallas, Fort Worth, 49 flights are scheduled over the next three days, and we continue to work supplies.
<30:37>
We continue to literally leave no stone unturned around America and around the world and we’re literally in the process of acquiring tens of millions of supplies that are being brought into a distribution system, organized out of FEMA and focused on the areas most in need. We’re also bringing real innovation, and at the White House coronavirus task force today, we tasked the FDA and CMS to review the feasibility of allowing hospital workers to use cloth gowns for performing procedures. It was observed that 20 years ago, most physicians and most surgeons wore cloth gowns every day and laundered them, but it’s transitioned to disposable gowns, and we’re working very rapidly in the next 24 hours and we’ll have guidance for hospitals and healthcare workers about the ability to, in effect, recycle gowns and make sure that we have the supplies that we need.
<31:39>
As the president mentioned today, the president and the first lady and I and my wife Karen were honored to be a part of a conference call with mental health from all around the country. And we know while there are families that are struggling with the coronavirus and struggling with heartbreaking loss to the coronavirus. We understand this is a very challenging time for every American, but most especially Americans who struggle with mental disorders or struggle with addiction. And the president brought some incredibly dedicated people together to make sure that they know we’re with them. Early on, the president expanded access to telemedicine. And we’ve also issued guidance for using technology to remain connected to social support groups. And we just urge everyone, everyone who may be feeling an emotional burden or a vulnerability during this time, to reach out to the many resources that are there and to know that you’re not alone and that we’re with you, and we’ll get through this and we’ll get through this together.
<32:45>
So despite heartbreaking losses that continue this week in communities from New York to New Jersey to Louisiana, there are sounds of progress and hope, abounds. The reality is that we see new projections from the experts and if the projections are right, it’s because it’s working, America. It’s because the American people are putting into practice the social distancing, caring for their neighbors and their loved ones and their family members and putting their health first, and we just want to urge every American to continue to put those principles and guidelines into practice every day. With that, I’m going to invite Dr. Deborah Birx up for an update and Dr. Fauci, we’ll hear from the secretary of labor and we’ll take a few questions.
<42:34>
Mr. Secretary.
<48:20>
Very well done.
<48:21>
Great job. Great. We’ll take a few questions. Yes, please.
Speaker 5-Reporter: <48:27>
Mr. Vice President, I have a question for you and then a question for Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci., Just to clarify on the federal funding for testing sites in the states, are you saying that federal funding will remain for those sites and will it remain at its current levels?
<48:40>
It’s not merely federal funding, but in many cases we provided personnel from the US public health service and also flowed supplies, personal protective equipment that was required for some of the early forms of testing, but it’s less required today with new formats for testing. But it is an option and as I’ve made clear to several governors, we’ll continue to partner with our states. But I have to tell you that the way states stepped forward with the concept of drive-through and community-based testing is really inspiring. For our part, working with FEMA and our great team at US Public Health Service, we’ve stood up some nearly 50 different drive-through test sites around the country, but literally there are hundreds that have been deployed by states and by hospitals and local health care providers. But in this instance we wanted to at least give them the option to take control of that, but we’ll continue to resource them with personnel, supplies and any other support that they need going forward. And-
Speaker 5-Reporter: <49:45>
Just a question for the doctors, I’m curious, did you see this information out of the CDC in South Korea today that shows that they’re seeing evidence of reinfection in some people who had been cured of coronavirus? And what does that mean for our understanding of this?
<50:03>
Have you seen that?
<55:30>
Let me go to another question if I can, but in response to that, just so you know, what the President’s tasked us to do is there’s a number of working groups and that are looking at not only how do we reopen the country, but how do we stay open? And I think most of America knows that no one wants to reopen America more than President Donald Trump. But the President’s told us we need to do it responsibly, and we’re going to follow the data.
<56:03>
We’re literally following the data on a county by county basis. This morning, we were literally presented with information of each county that had more than 100 new cases, and went in the other direction, had less than a hundred than the day before. It’s really remarkable and so I think what you hear the health experts saying will inform the President’s decision and timing.
<56:31>
But make no mistake about it, that the best thing we can do to reopen America is put the Coronavirus behind us, to reach the end of that curve with as little loss of life or hardship as possible. To have in place that we soon believe we will, the kind of therapeutics, I call them medicines, that make you feel better by this summer. And to have more widespread testing that we’re scaling up each and every day, and also to have the kind of guidance that the CDC is even now developing for businesses large and small, for families, and for schools for that day that we do reopen America. Question, go ahead.
<57:49>
Well, I can tell you as the lay person on the stage, we have known from the beginning that this is at least three times more contagious than the flu. And I believe that that fact alone has informed our projections and the modeling. But now, I’ll let the experts respond.
<01:00:08>
Tony. Yep.
<01:00:22>
I’ll go one more. I have one more. Go right ahead.
<01:00:48>
Well, I think the American people see the incredible progress that’s been made after President Trump brought in the largest commercial labs in the world to scale testing, the likes of which we’ve seen. We are, as Dr. Birx said, well over 100,000 Americans being tested every single day. We have an antibody test that is coming online. Abbott Laboratories literally has thousands of machines across the country. We’re working with hospitals and labs around the country to activate those machines for the 15 minute test and-
<01:01:23>
Well, let me say we’re moving every day toward meeting that moment, but let’s be clear. Reopening the country as the President is very anxious to do at the earliest responsible moment, will be through a combination of facts. First would be that we are at the end of the Coronavirus for most major communities. Another piece of that is that we have therapeutics for Americans to take medicines if they contract the disease. Another piece of that is guidance from the CDC to public institutions, to businesses large and small, about how to conduct themselves in a safe and a responsible way.
<01:02:13>
And testing is also a piece of that. And as Admiral Giroir has reflected, we are spending a great deal of time expanding testing today, every single day. There’s more and more tests across the country, but we’re also working to scale testing. As we move into this summer and move into the fall, we’ll have the testing we need to do what these doctors call not diagnostic testing, which is to take a test of a person that has symptoms, but surveillance testing, so we can identify people that may have had it and may be immune versus people that we just need to know whether or not they were never exposed and we’re not exposed. How about one more quick question here if I can. I think he had one right here. Or I’ll go to you in the back.
<01:03:35>
Well, I think the President has been very clear on his desire to reach a solution on that issue with the Congress. But let me say, whether it be healthcare workers or people working in food supply, other people working in critical infrastructure, we’re incredibly inspired by the way people across this country are stepping up to keep healthcare rolling and available, a high quality of care, even in areas deeply impacted by the Coronavirus.
<01:04:07>
And also as we said the other day, hardworking people in our food supply, from the farmers to processors, to distributors, to truck drivers, to grocers. We received a good word that over the last several days, we’ve actually seen a significant drop with one major company in absenteeism. We issued a new guidance from the CDC about how people who may have been within close proximity to someone who had the Coronavirus could return to work before the 14 days if they didn’t have a fever, if they tested themselves twice a day, and returned with a mask.
<01:04:45>
But the dedication of people to continue to work is truly inspiring. And I know as we go forward, we’ll work through a broad range of national issues, but we’re going to be incredibly proud for a long time by the way, people all across this country responded to this moment. So thank you all very much. We’ll see you tomorrow.
