<28:01>
Thank you Mr. President and to the Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci. I know I speak on behalf of the President and people all across this country when I express our great admiration and appreciation to both of you for helping to steer our nation through this challenging time. The American people have now seen what the President saw when he made the decision at the end of 15 days to slow the spread, to ask the American people to give us 30 more days, to continue to put into practice the president’s Coronavirus guidelines for America.
<28:37>
And as you just heard from the experts, we have reason to believe that it’s working. As Dr. Fauci just said, there are difficult days ahead. Our hearts and our prayers go out to the families that have lost loved ones. And those as the President’s just reflected who we know are struggling at this hour in hospitals across the nation. But to each and every one of us, do not be discouraged, because what you can do to protect your health, the health of your family, what you can do to ensure that our healthcare providers have the resources, and our hospitals have the capacity to meet this moment is put into practice the president’s Coronavirus guidelines for America.
<29:26>
It really is what every American can do. 30 days to slow the spread. 30 days to make a difference in the lives of the American people, American families, and the life of our nation. Allow me to give you a few brief updates before the president takes questions. First and foremost, we continue to work very closely with governors around the nation. President and I spoke to all the governors, all the states and territories yesterday. And since we were last together, the President and I have spoken directly and to several governors around the country including Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, New York, and others states.
<30:05>
At the present moment, the President has declared 29 major disaster declarations and authorized 10 different states to use full federal funding, so-called Title 32 funding, to pay for their National Guard. And as of this afternoon, FEMA reports some 17,000 National Guard had been activated in states around the country to provide support for Coronavirus response. On the subject of testing, we have now completed more than 1.1 million tests around the country. We’re working very closely with governors around America to assist them in drive through and community testing centers. I spoke with governor J.B. Pritzker of Illinois today about a testing center that they’ve established in cooperation with the US Public Health Service.
<30:55>
We remind every governor and every laboratory and hospital in the country, it’s imperative that you continue to report daily to the CDC the results of those tests to give us the visibility on the data to best inform resource decisions. Also, we reiterated today to governors in person, and also through correspondence to every governor, the importance of using their National Guard if need be to move medical supplies. FEMA is very busy as you’ll hear in a moment, delivering literally millions of supplies to states around the country, but were urging every governor to make sure to work with their state emergency management team and maybe use the National Guard to move those supplies from warehouses to hospitals.
<31:43>
At the present moment, as the President said, we’ve distributed more than 11.6 million N95 masks, more than 8,100 ventilators around the nation, millions of face shields, surgical masks, and gloves. We initiated an air bridge that the President announced yesterday. Flights have arrived in New York. One arrived in Illinois yesterday, and a flight will arrive in Ohio in the next 24 hours. FEMA is literally working and contracting around the world with now more than 51 flights that will be bringing vital medical supplies on the subject of ventilators, FEMA is currently delivering 400 ventilators to Michigan, 300 to New Jersey, 150 to Louisiana, 50 ventilators to Connecticut. And in the last week and in the week ahead, more than 450 ventilators to Illinois. This is in addition to more than 4,400 ventilators that the president and FEMA directed to the state of New York.
<32:44>
We just want people that are working on the front lines, that the President just spoke about, Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci spoke about, we want you to know, help is on the way. And at the President’s direction, we’re going to leave no stone unturned anywhere in America or anywhere in the world and make sure that you have the resources and the equipment to do your job. So again, I want to just say thank you America. Thank you for stepping up. Thank you for putting into practice the 15 days to slow the spread. And thank you for the response of tens of millions who have already had for the 30 days to slow the spread. We encourage each one of you as we have governors around the country to spread the word about the guidelines.
<33:27>
Listen to your state and local authorities in areas that are more greatly impacted. We continue to urge people in the areas of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to refrain from travel around the country. And people who’ve traveled from that area, check your temperature and self quarantine for 14 days. You can see from that chart the unique challenges people in the greater New York city area are facing with the Coronavirus, and we want to do all that we can to protect your health, focus resources on our community, and prevent unnecessary spread. Lastly, as the president highlighted yesterday, businesses…
<34:03>
Necessary spread. Lastly, as the President highlighted yesterday, businesses around America are stepping up as never before. Tomorrow, I’ll travel with Secretary Sonny Purdue to Gordonsville, Virginia to the Walmart Distribution Center, just so the American people can see firsthand how the food supply is continuing to roll on 18 wheels and through air freight all over America, and we thank again the grocery store operators around America, and everybody that’s working out on the highways and byways every day to keep that food supply rolling and rolling strong.
<34:33>
To the American people though, we just want to assure you that we’re going to continue to work our hearts out, work our hearts out to make sure our healthcare providers have everything they need, that anyone struggling with coronavirus has the support and healthcare they need, and I’m absolutely confident, seeing the way our governors are responding and seeing this team the President has assembled in the White House Coronavirus Task Force, confident of the prayers of the American people that we’ll get through this, but it will take all of us doing our part, and we’ll get through it together.
<43:26>
The test President unveiled yesterday, the Abbott Laboratories test, which is a 15 minute test, our team is working very closely with <inaudible 00:43:37> and FEMA to make sure that those are distributed around the country. Earlier this week, Abbott Laboratories is actually going to be producing 50,000 tests a day and distributing those around America. There’s already the machines in some 18,000 different locations around the country, and they’ve told us they have several thousand on the shelf now, and what we’re doing is trying to identify the areas where we may yet have pockets, or as Dr. Birx often says, where we want to do more immediate testing so that we can do what’s called surveillance testing to identify where there may be coronavirus cases where there’s been very little incident.
<44:19>
But if I could just amplify one other point, and that is that when you look at this chart, go back 15 days, and the reality is that, now this is me speaking as a lay person, but as I’ve listened to our experts, and New York and the greater New York City area have unique challenges. It’s a city that we really believe may have had exposure to the coronavirus much earlier on than we could have known and had its own challenges. New York, Connecticut, New Jersey are leaning into this effort. But when we look at this chart for all the other states, including Washington state and California, it really does give evidence, that at least it begins to give evidence that the 15 days to slow the spread is working, and that in fact the American people are putting these things into practice in states across the country, including in New York and New Jersey, even though they’ve faced a greater magnitude of cases for certain circumstances that are related to international travel in those communities. But I think-
<45:26>
No, I think the American people, what I’m suggesting, Jim, is the American people can look at these numbers in the other 48 states, and they can see that in the last 15 days, the President’s coronavirus guidelines were working, and that’s precisely why President Trump is asking every American to continue to put these guidelines into practice for 30 more days. <crosstalk 00:45:46>
<49:15>
I think this is just for purposes of clarification, there’s a difference between sending a test that can be administered, to a test being done, and because a month ago or more, the President brought together the top commercial labs in America and said, “We need you to partner with us to create a brand new system that would rapidly process tests.” We’re now at 1.1 million tests and we believe it’s a fair estimate that we’re testing about a hundred thousand Americans a day. That’ll continue to grow. It will continue to accelerate, but I think the misunderstanding early on was there were many tests being distributed, many test kits being sent, but under the old system, as the President’s described it, the antiquated system, those were being processed in state labs, or at CDC, or in private labs on a very slow, methodical system that could only produce maybe 30 to 50 tests a day.
<50:24>
But this new partnership that we have with commercial laboratories allows the progress we’re making. But the breakthrough with Abbott Laboratories now moves to point of care, which means you’re going to have devices and tests that people will literally be able to take at their doctor’s office, at a hospital, at a clinic, at a nursing home, and have the results in 15 minutes.
<50:51>
Yes.
<50:58>
The answer is yes, now through the new system.
<01:06:36>
Well, let me echo our appreciation for Governor DeSantis’ leadership in Florida. He’s been taking decisive steps from early on and working closely with our team at the federal level. But let me be very clear on this. The recommendation of our health experts was to take the 15 days to slow the spread, and have the President extend that to 30 days for every American. Now, that being said, we recognize that when you’re dealing with a health crisis in the country, it is locally executed by healthcare workers, but it’s state managed. And so we continue to flow information to state governors. We continue to hear about the data that they’re analyzing and consult with them. But at the President’s direction, the White House Coronavirus Task Force will continue to take the posture that we will defer to state and local health authorities on any measures that they deem appropriate. But for the next 30 days, this is what we believe every American and every state should be doing at a minimum to slow the spread.
<01:31:13>
Can I speak to that too as well? President made reference to the fact, January 31, he suspended all travel from China. Shortly thereafter, we issued strong travel advisories for the sections of Italy implicated and sections of South Korea, and we reached agreements with those countries to screen all passengers from all airports coming into the United States of America. The president’s initial efforts were designed at preventing the Coronavirus from coming into the United States. And what our experts have told us again and again at the Coronavirus task force is that those actions bought us a significant amount of time on this curve to respond with kind of mitigation efforts, standing up resources, testing and supplies that are in effect.
<01:32:04>
But we went from a prevention strategy the President acted on before the month of January was over to a mitigation strategy, which continues to this day. And if I can also say just just to every American, all the questions about resources are very important. And I can assure you that the President and our task force are preoccupied with these issues and working with governors hour by hour to meet those needs. But if Americans will put into practice these guidelines for another 30 days, they’ll do their part to lower the curve and save lives, most importantly, and limit the burden on our hospitals and our healthcare system in the country significantly.
<01:32:56>
And so make no mistake about it. While we’re going to work our hearts out, leave no stone unturned, to find the resources, the masks, the ventilators that we need, and we are going to meet that moment with the full energy of the American economy and the whole of the American government. The American people have a role to play in preserving that medical capacity in a way that will ensure that people that are caught up in the Coronavirus, particularly those that are vulnerable to the most serious outcomes, which are seniors with serious underlying health conditions or anyone with an immunodeficiency, have the resources, the support and the health care that every American family would want their loved one to have. <crosstalk 01:33:37>
<01:58:27>
His name is Pete Gaynor. He’s the administrator of FEMA, and when the president signed the national emergency declaration, he stood up the National Response Center at FEMA and now I can tell you that when the White House coronavirus task force meets, I’m at one end of the table and Pete Gaynor and the whole FEMA team are by video conference at the other end of the table, and that’s where whether it be the Airbridge that’s literally bringing in millions of medical supplies from around the world, the thoughtful deployment of those supplies to hospitals, particularly with regard to ventilators. We’re working very closely. HHS is fully integrated at FEMA now, but because of the president’s decision to stand up FEMA in the lead, we have a coronavirus task force at the White House that’s bringing the president the very best health experts and recommendations from every agency, all the implementation as we tell governors, literally every day is happening through FEMA. It’s going down to the States through FEMA and state requests are coming up through regional administrators for FEMA and back to the White House.
<01:59:47>
Not for long.
<01:59:51>
We moved them out. They had them a long time ago, but they didn’t need them.
<02:00:12>
Nobody knew about Abbott. It was just brought to life two weeks ago. They just came up with it.
<02:00:18>
It was an invention … So nobody knew about it. Nobody knew you could even do it. They did an incredible job. Their scientists came up with the idea of a week and a half ago. I showed it to you yesterday in the box. I don’t think you could do much better than that.
<02:00:31>
If I may, Mr. President. I think your point’s well taken. The Abbott Laboratories point of contact test was approved Friday. President announced it in the Rose garden on Sunday. We’re socializing that all across the country, to every governor to laboratories elsewhere. And I have to tell you, this team that the president has assembled, the advisors on the White House coronavirus task force and then this team at FEMA, whether it be HHS deputy secretary Bob Kadelac, who’s coordinating all supplies, whether it be Admiral Zua are who is a literally working with every state on a county by county basis to deploy testing is impressive.
<02:01:16>
I think it’s given great encouragement to governors, president and I spoke to governors in all the states and territories again yesterday because governors, I can tell you from my own experience as a governor. In Indiana, we had tornadoes and flooding, governors know how to deal with FEMA. And as soon as the president stood up FEMA, declared that national emergency, what I’ll call a certain amount of muscle memory kicked in in states around the country. And we’re really seeing a tremendous efficiency and communication, and that’s how we’re going to go forward. Again, the president’s vision here is FEMA’s vision, which is in response to a health crisis, it’s locally executed, state managed, federally supported. And I have to tell you, we’re seeing that whole process spinning up every day and I hope Americans looking on are encouraged by that system and I know they’re hearing from governors around the country about the flow of resources and testing and supplies and we’ll continue to keep that, what you call an incident command what, what we call the federal emergency management agency working 24/7
