<41:09>
Thank you Mr. President. And let me echo your words about all the dedicated men and women on the White House coronavirus task force. And the team that you assembled in January, some of whom are with us today, Seema Verma with CMS, Admiral Giroir with U.S. public health service, Dr. Steve Hahn of the FDA and others represent a level of commitment and dedication, it’s been inspiring for me to have a privilege to work with. And so I thank you for your gracious words. That White House coronavirus task force met today. It was reported to us that at this moment, more than 746,000 Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus. Fortunately, more than 68,000 Americans have fully recovered, but sadly more than 41,000 Americans have lost their lives to the coronavirus. And we always want to express our deepest sympathies to the families in their loss, as well as to all the families who have loved ones that are struggling with this disease.
<42:20>
Today, we’ve seen encouraging news again about our progress as a nation. President Trump reflected on those momentarily, but the coronavirus White House task force today learned that our large metro areas continue to stabilize and even see progress. The New York metro area, including New Jersey, New York, Long Island, Connecticut, and Rhode Island all appeared to be past their peak. The Detroit metro area also appears to be past its peak and is stable. New Orleans metro area actually is the most stable of all areas where we had a major metropolitan outbreak. And the Denver metro area is stable. We’re dealing in Colorado with a meat packing plant issue. And of course, California and Washington remain low and steady. Areas that we continue to watch carefully on the task force, include the Chicago metro area, Boston metro, and the Philadelphia metropolitan area.
<43:24>
The progress that we are making is a tribute to the American people. It’s a tribute to state and local leaders in all of these areas and the partnership that our president has forged. But we just want to encourage every American as we see this progress to continue to heed your state and local authorities. I think the American people know, no one wants to reopen America more than President Donald Trump, but I want to assure you we’re going to continue to work with the governors of every state, with the President’s guidelines for opening up America again, and we’re going to work in a way that we can consolidate the progress that we have made and help move our states toward reopening our country. We also received a report today in the coronavirus task force at this point, 5,528 military personnel have been deployed across 24 hospitals and facilities and 28,700 National Guard are on duty.
<44:33>
On the subject of supplies, the President spoke about this at length, but at the present moment we have more than 9,055 ventilators on hand. We actually added 91 ventilators to that supply because of the production that the president and our task force at FEMA has activated. In the next seven days, we’ll be adding 576 ventilators to the strategic national stockpile. As the President mentioned, our Air Bridge continues to work. 64 flights completed, 50 more slights on the horizon, literally bringing in medical equipment from around the country and around the world and deploying it to critical areas. Finally, tomorrow as the President announced, we’ll be hosting a conference call with all of the nation’s governors, all the states and territories from the headquarters at FEMA.
<45:26>
And we’ll be working with the governors to ensure them that we’re helping them to review and evaluate the President’s guidelines for opening up America again. The criteria that we believe is appropriate and necessary before states can move into any phase one change in the mitigation strategies, but also at the President’s direction tomorrow. We’ll be providing all the nation’s governors and all of their health officials with detail about the testing infrastructure that exists all around the country. We’ll be specifically providing-
<46:02>
… this all around the country. We’ll be specifically providing governors and state health officials with information about all of the lab capability that exists in their states, and also we’ll be updating them on our efforts to identify the kind of supplies the president just held up and our efforts to make sure that those supplies are at all of those laboratories as the need should arise. Remember that a month ago we had done 80,000 Coronavirus tests in America. This weekend we cleared more than 4 million, and we’re currently testing more than a million Americans a week. We fully expect to actually have tested more than 5 million Americans before the end of this month, but at the president’s urging, we’re going to continue to scale that testing and then work with governors to make sure that they can manage and implement and deploy that testing in the manner that will most support their efforts to move their states forward.
<46:59>
Remember that the testing that is contemplated in the guidelines for opening up America again for phase one are testing people that have symptoms that may be Coronavirus and then also having the testing resources to deploy to vulnerable communities, nursing homes, or other vulnerable communities that we have identified as needing additional, what is called monitoring or surveillance testing. We believe we have the testing today around the country that would allow any state in America to move into phase one if they’ve met the other criteria, 14 days of consistent declines and strong hospital capacity so that their system would not be overwhelmed in the event of a flare-up. But we’re going to be working with governors tomorrow on the subject of testing and supplies. And as president said again this evening, we’re here to help. We’ve forged a partnership with governors around the country, and tomorrow we’ll be building on that partnership to hopefully arrive at the day that we can make sure governors around the nation have the best advice and the best resources to put America back to work. Thank you, Mr. President.
<01:03:13>
Yes, there’s a chance. And I think Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx talked about this at the podium. And the key here is the surveillance that is being put in place with the CDC. Think that’ll be a really great help in terms of trying to reduce that risk. Thank you.
