<15:48>
Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. I’m a proud fourth generation community banker from Northern Minnesota. I’m also the current chairman of the Independent Community Bankers of America. As you know, during these unprecedented times our nation’s community banks and my bank, Grand Rapids State Bank, and Minnesota Lakes Bank stand shoulder to shoulder with their small business customers, their consumers in the communities that we serve.
<16:15>
We’ve been doing the modifications for our customers for weeks, doing interest only, doing payment deferrals and reinvesting and donating to local communities where we operate. Despite some difficulties during the first couple of days getting into the system with some banks that had an impact on small businesses that anchor our economy, we worked through the nights and we worked through the weekend to secure as much funding as we could for those in need and those that qualify, especially for those that are willing to continue to keep their workforce on the payroll, working to support what is an otherwise strong underlying economy. We know from an informal survey that about one third of all community banks still do not have access to the system and that means those community banks have been boxed out and unable to serve their communities and their customers. Just imagine the awesome power and the difference the community banking industry could make if we had all 100% of those banks with access to the system.
<17:16>
ICBA remains steadfast in its mission to create and promote an environment where community banks flourish. Part of that’s in maintaining strong local communities with strong local businesses. I want to thank you, Mr. President, Secretary Mnuchin, SBA administrator Carranza. We’re working to make these funds authorized by the CARES Act available to small businesses of our great nation. And I ask that if the need to expand that amount becomes more than what we’ve already allocated as country, that it is done so expeditiously. I appreciate your earlier comments, Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity to be here today and represent the nation’s community banks.
