<22:48>
Thank you Mr president.
<22:51>
Just a little bit about what we’re doing in Washington, California and New York. We understand that the states of Washington, New York, and California, the areas seeing a steady increase in Corona 19 Virus cases. In order to assist with additional needs identifying those areas, the state of New York was approved for a major disaster and declaration this morning. Washington state was also approved earlier today. California submitted their requests and the president will consider it immediately.
<23:19>
We have medical supplies in route to these states, including respirators, surgical masks, gowns, face shields, coveralls, gloves with quantities already delivered to both Washington, New York and California. And we anticipate additional supplies to be delivered over the next 42 hours to all these states. Under president Trump’s unprecedented national emergency declaration on March 13, FEMA is assisting state, local, tribal, and territorial governments, including reimbursing eligible emergency protective measures taken at the direction or guidance of public health officials in response to this emergency. All 50 States, the District of Columbia, five territories and two tribes are working directly with FEMA under the nationwide emergency.
<24:03>
… and two tribes are working directly with FEMA under the Nationwide Emergency Declaration for COVID-19. With the assistance of the FEMA regional administrators who are throughout the country, we are working to address the needs of state and local officials everywhere.
<24:15>
States, tribal and territorial governments do not need to request separate emergency declarations to receive FEMA assistance under this nationwide declaration. The Emergency Declaration does not authorize direct financial assistance available to individuals such as disaster, unemployment assistance or other needs assistance at this time.
<24:33>
Just a note on the USNS Mercy. Based on analysis of potential needs for hospital beds on the West Coast, the decision was made that the USNS hospital ship Mercy would have the greatest impact in California. The Department of Defense has been given direction to dispatch it to Los Angeles immediately. DOD has advised that the Mercy can get into position within a week or less of today’s order. Even though there are more cases right now in Washington, the projected needs for beds in California is five times more that of Washington. The Mercy will be used to take pressure off local hospitals, other medical needs and not for treating COVID-19 cases.
<25:18>
Finally, a little bit about the National Guard. The federal government continues to take aggressive action and proactive steps to address the COVID-19 threat. As we attack the health and safety or protect the health and safety of American people, it remains our top priority. The National Guard is especially posited and equipped to assist federal, state, local agencies while serving the public.
<25:39>
In response to this unprecedented nationwide operation, President Trump has approved Washington, California, New York National Guard units under Title 30 T, excuse me, Title 32 status for the COVID-19 response. The president’s action provide the nation’s governors continued command of their National Guard forces, enabling states to use additional resources to meet the missions necessary in the COVID-19 response.
<26:06>
The National Guard is a viable and responsive avenue to provide a much-needed asset that is state-managed and fairly supported. I want to be clear: This Title 32 activation does not federalize National Guard members. The National Guard is still under the authority of each governor. They will work in concert with the Department of Defense.
<26:26>
We’ve had a lot of disinformation circling and I want to make sure it is understood that this is not martial law. The Department of Defense by way of a mission assignment will lead this task. Then finally, we continue to respond to hundreds of requests from governors across the country in filling all their critical needs. Thank you, sir.
