<41:07>
Mr. Secretary, has there been any talk, sir, of any sort of shutdown of domestic air travel at all?
<41:26>
Mr. Vice President, Dr. Fauci this morning said that the federal government should do whatever it takes to increase Americans’ social distancing and encourage that practice. He didn’t rule out the possibility of a national lockdown. If Americans don’t take those steps on their own, is that something that the federal government is prepared to do? And secondly, I’d also like to know, the President, we just heard him say Americans should relax. Why aren’t we hearing more from him about what Americans can do as they are seeing this huge impact on their daily lives, whether it’s at airports or at restaurants or other places around the country?
<43:51>
Could we continue for Dr. Fauci, could you give us some examples? You say anything, everything. Like what?
<44:02>
Like what Europe is doing? No bars, no restaurants-
<44:08>
But if new guidance is coming tomorrow, can you give us a more concrete idea right now?
<44:11>
You must know what it is.
<44:21>
Mr. Vice President, how will people know where to get their test?
<44:28>
Mr. Vice President, what is your plan to build more hospital beds so tens of thousand Americans don’t die, and how many more ventilators are you looking at ordering so people don’t suffocate?
<49:38>
Mr. Vice President, <crosstalk 00:49:41> using the military?
<49:44>
Mr Vice President, you talked briefly about trying to make information more accessible online, so can you give us a time table for when you think a website will be available based on your conversations with Google? And secondly, and this might be to the broader team, can you also talk specifically about how many of these tests have been sent out to states and how many you still have to send out?
<54:51>
Mr. Vice President, are you considering domestic travel restrictions, sir?
<54:55>
Mr. Vice President, market futures are down despite the dramatic move from the fed that the President applauded, which suggests that there’s still concern that we haven’t done enough to respond to the economic impact of this deal… Or of the coronavirus. I’m wondering when specifically we’re going to hear from the White House about how you’re going help impacted industries from the airlines, the cruise ships? And secondly, I wanted to talk about the legislation that came out. The White House fought to exclude workers at larger corporations from paid sick leave. And so I’m wondering what you say to somebody who flips burgers at McDonald’s or works at one of these large chains that’s worried about staying home and potentially missing a paycheck?
