<03:04>
Well, I think I first I want to thank you for your decisive leadership in helping us put public health first. I also want to thank you for coming here today and encouraging and bringing energy to the men and women that you see that work every day to try to keep America safe. So I think that’s the most important thing I want to say sir.
<04:09>
The one thing I would like to add, the purpose of all of this as Dr. Monroe said, is to have the capacity to detect the unknown. These labs developed tests for Zika, SARS, MERS, and now this coronavirus. And I think it really is remarkable the capacity we had here. Once we got the sequence, I think this lab team had a functional test in about seven days that they then worked with the FDA to make sure it was regulated. I think it’s … That’s really what we do.
<05:04>
Yeah. I think at this point again, and we’ve said this before, the secretary can add, the overall risk to the American public does remain low. And again I think we owe a lot to the decisive decisions initially to have travel restrictions and a number of areas of screening in airports. And then the most important is to get the public health community to do the early case recognition, isolation and contact <inaudible 00:05:28>, which again, the fact that we now had a test, allowed us to do that a lot more effectively if we didn’t have a test.
<05:35>
We do have some areas where there’s significant community transmission now. Obviously we’ve seen that in the Seattle area and we’ve seen it in parts of California. We’re working hard with the local state health departments and those groups to continue to try to control this infection in that area. I think as the president said, or maybe the secretary, we still have only around 200 cases that we’ve diagnosed in the United States. We’re going to see more cases because we’re getting more diagnostics out there. But I would say that again, what I said before that at the present time, the general risk to the American public remains low.
<06:12>
We’re going to concentrate and help those communities though that are now fighting the battle. Like in the state of Washington, some of you were there I think the other day when we were out there so.
<07:59>
I would like-
<08:00>
I’d like to make one thing clear.
<08:02>
When this test was developed in really very rapid time, it was first offered here at CDC. So all the public health labs of this nation could use CDC as we do when any new disease comes and we can help them understand if this new pathogen is in that individual. That was available as soon as our test was approved by the FDA. Not a faulty test, a very accurate test, but the challenge was you had to send the sample here to CDC. That’s the same test we use today. So no state lab never had no access. They always have the ability to send it here.
<08:43>
No, they had to send it here because that’s how we started it. Then we developed the test to expand and in the manufacturing there was … And after that, we shipped it out to the states to see if they could verify did it work. We found that in some of the States that didn’t work, we figured out why. I don’t consider that a fault. I consider that doing quality control. I consider that success, making sure this test was going to perform out there with the same proficiency that it performed here.
<09:11>
Yes sir.
<10:58>
Yeah. We have been diagnosing cases here from the beginning originally linked to travel, associated with very aggressive public health measures of contact tracing. So you might find one confirmed case and you might evaluate another 300 people all right? And as we went out to do that, the only contacts initially from the beginning that we found were two spouses of spouses who came back from Wuhan and all the other contacts were negative. Over time, when the state of Washington sent a sample from an individual, they made the first diagnosis. That individual was also a traveler, but clearly as they continued to diagnose more, we found people that had no risk through travel and this is what we call community spread.
<11:49>
So we do have community spread. We are continuing to look. We are enhancing our surveillance. We’re blending surveillance for coronavirus into our flu surveillance system. But at this point, I think we have isolated a number of clusters, but it’s not as if we have multiple, multiple hundreds and hundreds of clusters around the United States.
<14:02>
I think there’s no doubt we’re going to see more community cases. And I just want to say, and there’s no doubt that the public health system of the United States is enhancing surveillance in a variety of ways to try to really understand is there any hidden pockets. That’s all in process, but I will say everyone has been aggressively using the single case they diagnosed then to go look at all the contacts to try to begin to understand this. This is how the nursing home is.
<14:34>
A lot of infections in Seattle and tragically, and they’re all in our prayers, a number of deaths for that nursing home. So I just want to assure the American public that we are enhancing our surveillance, not just CDC, but the entire public health system of this nation, so that we will have very accurate eyes on where this virus is.
<26:00>
We continue to send… Excuse me.
<26:03>
I’ll stand right here.
<26:06>
We continue. Our first responsibility, the CDC, as I said was to develop the eyes for the lab test. Second responsibility is to get that out to the public health community and we have now shipped out… I think it was enough to 75,000 people into the public health labs now?
<26:36>
And the second group was to get… How do you get tests into the clinical arena? Since our role was to get it in the public health arena, and the FDA, the Secretary, under his leadership was able to take the test that CDC developed and one of the companies said they want to develop it and sell it. And that’s what the Secretary referred to, that…
<26:58>
Yeah. And by the end of this week, they were supposed to have about a million, 1.2 million tests out.
<28:11>
I want to add. I want to add one. I want to add.
<28:21>
Before that, I just wanted to add one other thing to the availability of clinical tests. The Secretary and the Vice President, last week, brought together all of the major diagnostic companies that you all know so well. Labcorp, Quest, and asked them to come together as a group and they already formed a consortia to work together to use their capacity, which is really substantial, to bring this tests to doctors’ offices around our nation. And when they presented it, they felt that either by Monday, they’re going to begin to roll out this test now through Labcorp, through Quest.
<29:02>
So as the President said, the issue now is whether the clinicians believe that this is indicated in evaluating the patients that come to see them. It’s not going to be about the availability of the test. It’s going to be about the clinical judgment of the patient and the doctor, or the nurse practitioner to get this test.
<29:26>
Yes.
<32:39>
And I think it’s important just to emphasize again back to the role that CDC had to support the public health labs. We have built the laboratory capacity throughout our public health labs to monitor for flu and other respiratory viral systems. The platform that does that is the platform of the test that we developed. It wouldn’t have helped us to develop a test in the public health labs, and they have none of the instrumentation. We develop using that platform for public health labs. Platform that the secretary and Dr. Monroe was saying is a high throughput platform, which has been put in most hospitals for HIV, Hepatitis C and so that’s the platform. And as we sit here today, we’re trying to now validate whether the test we made would be validated to use that on that platform? But the private sector is already doing it too. I mean they’re moving now to that rapid throughput platform.
<41:06>
Well, I would just say we’re at a stage in our experience with this virus that we are still deeply focused on control. Some people use the word containment to control. And I said about the important principles of early diagnosis, isolation, and contact rates. And then now with some mitigation strategies, you see in different areas when they’re deciding should we close large gatherings? I think it’s important to use the data and the science that we have. I mean we’re not blind to where this virus is right now in the United States. And we need to focus our resources right now where we know this virus is circulating substantially in the community like certain parts of California, like certain parts of Seattle.
<41:57>
That’s where we need to put our focus. It would not be a service to our ability for our American response. If all of a sudden 20 million Americans that have no evidence of any risks that we’ve looked in those areas really don’t need that. That’s why we are accelerating as the President said our surveillance. I mean we’re going out and really testing people that have flu like symptoms, and we’re going to expand that from the sites we started to the whole nation.
<42:24>
So we’re going to have eyes on this and see. Whoops, this virus has now snuck up into Northern Maine. Whoops, we see it down in Kansas and that information will then be used by doctors to know if someone comes in with an upper respiratory flu, I better think about maybe testing for Coronavirus. So we really want to have the American people to have confidence. It’s not just in CDC, it’s in the public health community of this nation. It’s strong. They’re doing their job. I tell people every time we see a new confirmed case, they should think of that as a success, not a failure because they know their public health community’s out doing their job.
<43:47>
So right now you shouldn’t think of it as one or the other. All right. And I’m going to say we need to stay committed to containment. And I still believe containment and control is the goal, but that’s going to be complimented strategically by what we call mitigation or non-pharmaceutical interventions. Like asking churches not to have big gatherings. So in the state of Washington in the last couple of days, they announced their initial mitigation strategies. We’ve been working on mitigation for the whole nation, just in a planning way. But we’ve also have our people buried into the Washington Health Department, the California Health Department, and have them start to develop.
<44:29>
And again, Washington started to operationalize theirs this week. I suspect California will later. We’re going to continue to work on these. And it’s going to be a community by community, community, community strategy. They’re not all going to be the same, but it’s going to be driven by the amount of community transmission that can’t be linked to a contact that can’t be linked to a trip. When you see significant, or we call on-link transmission then you start to have to evaluate the value. So it’s not one versus the other. But this nation should not give up on containment.
