<51:19>
Hello, hi Mr. President, how are you? It’s such an honor to meet you.
<51:23>
I want to first tell you, thank you so much. I am a COVID-19 survivor and I got diagnosed probably about a month, month and a half ago as positive. And I’m just sitting at home and watching TV and heard you talk hydroxychloroquine and talked to my doctor. We took it and within five days I’m here to say I’m good to go.
<51:50>
Yes. And so I want to first-
<51:54>
Oh, really?
<52:14>
I had an excellent experience.
<52:18>
I used to have bronchitis as a child. And so to have that breathing interaction going on again from, I’m telling my age, from about 30 or 40 years later, it’s just like, “Whoa, what’s going on here?” So to be able to get that particular prescription and be able to take in and to be able to breathe again within hours was just amazing. So, and I’ll be honest-
<52:52>
Right, yeah. Actually, I had thought I grew out of it. You know how they say you grow out of things? And so I haven’t had an actual episode since I was 13 years old.
<53:00>
So to have one when I’m now 50, which I might as well tell it now, it’s just like, “Okay, wow, where did this come from?” It was quite a little scary thing. But I must admit, like I said within hours-
<53:16>
I had to really calm myself down and kind of go through it.
<53:24>
Yes, oh yeah. Night sweats, the whole nine yards, fever, coughing, little weird cough. The cough wasn’t the same as a normal cough, it’s kind of a weird type of cough.
<53:35>
But yeah, I went through the whole gambit of it. But thank God I was able to stay at home and I did recover.
<53:42>
And you hear a lot of different stories, especially with Karen. I’ve met Karen a couple of times. I know Alfonso from doing the opportunity zones, development, things like that, in real estate. But that was something that was a little bit scary. So I do actually, just from watching you on TV and hearing you talk about it, I was able to call my doctor and say, “Listen, hey, let’s try this because this must be what’s going on. And then I need to get tested on top of that.” So at that time we had to have prescriptions to get tested. And so he wrote the script, we got it done and I was positive. And then we got the hydroxychloroquine, actually we call it a cocktail with Zithromycin and the zinc. And, like I said, I took it at 8:30, 9:00 at night, 9:30 that morning, 9:30 in the morning, by 4:00 or 5:00 I was breathing good.
<54:36>
So I first want to thank you-
<54:38>
Thank you for that information, because information is key. And when you’re in real estate, you realize the more information that you know, the more things you can get done. And I am very thankful for that. And, like I said, we’re working in our opportunities zones, we thank you for that in Detroit. Our property values and everything in Detroit is moving up. We have a lot of heavy players that are doing a lot of things in those zones to bring those property values backs up for our residents. And that’s amazing. So I thank you a lot for that.
