<39:21>
Well, yesterday we began processing again the travel restrictions from passengers from the Shingon area, which totaled more than 40,000 passengers yesterday. So to give you an idea, in one day, we processed over half of the total number of individuals we have processed medical screening since February 2nd. So that is an enormous challenge that we have placed on our officers and contract medical staff at airports, and they are stepping up. But to be clear, the lines again that we saw overnight at a limited number of airports, including Chicago, are unacceptable. Acting Commissioner, CVP Commissioner Morgan also believes they’re unacceptable and has personally engaged leadership at all 13 funneling airports. We did make the necessary adjustments at 12 of the funneling airports.
<40:03>
We did make the necessary adjustments at 12 of the funneling airports. However, again, at Chicago those adjustments were not made quick enough, but we have course corrected. We’ve adjusted our processes, we continue to surge personnel, and we are certainly glad to see certain airports and certain airlines step up, partner with us and help address this unprecedented situation.
<40:21>
As I walked in here today, so far today at all of our funneling airports to include Chicago, we have an average wait time of 30 minutes. So we addressed the problem, we identified the problem, addressed it and we have fixed it and we look forward to, again, accommodating passengers this evening as well. I understand the frustration that some passengers who are returning to the US might have with some of these procedures, but I would just say, and rest assure, that we are continuing our strict protocols of looking at individuals as they come into the country, make sure that they are medically screened, make sure that we are capturing the information for the public health officials, the state and local officials, and we’ll continue to do that. And we’ve done that specifically at the President’s request. Thank you.
<41:12>
Well, we continue to look at all options and all options remain on the table to address, and we’ll certainly adjust as the medical professionals at CDC address the medical situation.
