<48:24>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Mr. President. So just a few weeks ago we stood here and asked the American healthcare system to delay elective surgeries and procedures. And the reason why we did this is we wanted to make sure that the healthcare system could deal with any surges. We wanted to preserve equipment, make sure that they had the appropriate workforce to handle any surge. And our healthcare system did a fantastic job. They very quickly stood up telehealth services, and under the president’s leadership, we started paying for these services under the Medicare program. But the reality is not everything can be addressed by telehealth. There may be a woman that needs surgery for breast cancer, somebody who has cataracts in their eyes that need to be able to see better, and sometimes a doctor just needs to be able to listen to their patient’s heart. We’ve heard across the country that doctor’s offices have closed and many healthcare systems are furloughing their staff, nurses, and doctors.
<49:22>
Under the president’s leadership, we’ve put out over $90 billion in accelerated payments under the Medicare program, provided $30 billion of grants, with more dollars on the way. But thanks to the American people, we are in a much different place. You heard from the vice president that there are many places around the country where they’re seeing a decline in cases, and hospitals are reporting that they have unused capacity. And so as part of our opening up America, we are issuing guidelines today about how we can reopen the healthcare system. So these are recommendations around phase one. Now, every state and local official has to assess the situation on the ground. They need to make sure that they can still address surges. They need to make sure that they have adequate supplies and a plan for conserving supplies. They need to be able to screen patients and health care workers for COVID virus. And they need to make sure that patients feel safe when they come in to seek healthcare services by assuring that they have the appropriate cleaning in place and that they observe social distancing inside the healthcare facilities.
<50:35>
And this isn’t going to be like a light switch. It’s more like a sunrise where it’s going to be a gradual process. And healthcare officials across the country and healthcare systems need to decide what services should be made available, and ultimately doctors and patients need to make decisions about their healthcare services. And we want to make sure that systems are reopening so that they can stay open and doing that in a very measured way. And I want to thank all the healthcare workers on the front lines who’ve done a fantastic job in providing care and comfort, serving as a liaison between family members. They’ve done a fantastic job, and we owe a debt of gratitude to them and to all those providers that did adhere to our guidelines. They did the right thing, and it has made an extraordinary difference.
<51:25>
Also want to take a couple of seconds here to talk about our nursing homes. Our hearts and minds are with the patients and the families of those living in nursing homes. This is an extraordinarily difficult situation. People living in nursing homes are of the most vulnerable patients. They’re elderly. Many of them have underlying health conditions. And this has been a very hard situation, and I really appreciate the strong efforts of governors and local communities that have shown great leadership in supporting homes across the country, particularly Governor Baker, Governor Hogan, that have had special efforts around supporting nursing homes. FEMA is also working on a plan to make sure that nursing homes have the supplies that they need. And just last week we increased the reimbursement in the Medicare program for high throughput tests, and we are also paying for labs to go out to nursing homes to collect samples, and that’s going to really support efforts on nursing homes in order to isolate patients.
<52:27>
Today we are also announcing under the president’s leadership an effort around nursing home transparency. It’s important that patients and their families have the information that they need, and they need to understand what’s going on in the nursing home. And so today we are announcing that we are requiring nursing homes to report to patients and their families if there are cases of COVID virus inside the nursing home. We are also requiring nursing homes to report directly to the CDC when they have cases of COVID virus. And this is very important, as you’ve heard Dr. Birx talk about. As we reopen the United States, our surveillance effort around the COVID virus will also begin in nursing homes. And so by having this reporting system, this will support CDC’s efforts to have surveillance around the country and to support efforts around contact tracing so that we can mitigate the spread of the virus in those communities that show spreads starting in the nursing homes. So again, I want to thank all of the local officials that have done an amazing job in supporting the nursing homes and would urge all state and local leaders to follow their lead and do everything that we can to keep nursing home residents safe. Thank you.
