<26:58>
Thank you Mr. President and let me start by saying I want to convey my deepest sympathies to those that have lost loved ones to the Coronavirus. We’re all thinking of you.
<27:09>
Today’s Doctor’s Day and even without it, I want to send a message of gratitude to the foot soldiers in this war; men and women that are providing care and comfort to Americans that have been affected by the virus. Your country is grateful and in short, as the president has said, we are engaged in a war against an invisible enemy. In war time, the assumptions of peace time must be revisited and adjusted to meet the demands of the moment.
<27:37>
And so under the president’s leadership, CMS is waving a wide and unprecedented range of regulatory requirements. Now many healthcare systems won’t need these waivers and they shouldn’t use them if they don’t need them but the flexibilities are there. In a time of crisis, regulations shouldn’t stand in the way of patient care and there are several components to our announcement today but the first one is CMS’s hospital’s without walls and this is going to allow hospital systems to create new treatment sites outside of their facility, to expand capacity and be able to safely separate patients that are infected with the Coronavirus and those that are not.
<28:19>
Now FEMA is doing incredible work setting up temporary hospitals in New York and other areas but under these waivers, we are empowering local communities to compliment and augment the work of FEMA in allowing hospital systems to tap into the capacity that already exist in their communities, making use of dorms and hotels or gymnasiums and allowing the main hospital to focus on those that need the most intensive care.
<28:46>
There are surgery centers out there today that are delaying elective surgeries and they may have excess capacity that could be devoted to hospital light care.
<28:57>
We are also making changes to the Medicare program to facilitate testing. So some people that need a coronavirus test can’t leave their home or patients that are in a nursing home and now we will pay for labs to go out to these locations and perform testing.
<29:12>
We’re also expanding the workforce. We are taking action today to relax some of our regulations to allow hospitals to increase their workforce and we’re allowing a broad range of flexibilities so that we can let healthcare workers operate at the top of their license.
<29:33>
We are also allowing our hospitals to provide more support for our healthcare workers. Under today’s regulations, they can only provide minimal support to healthcare workers but now we’re going to allow them to provide childcare, meals, laundry services.
<29:49>
Then there’s also telehealth. The president already directed a dramatic expansion of telehealth to our nation’s 62 million seniors with Medicare and we’re so proud of all the healthcare providers and patients that have rapidly implemented…
<30:03>
… care, healthcare providers and patients that have rapidly implemented telehealth. But today we’re announcing that we’re going to go even further and we’re going to be paying for doctors to make phone calls with their patients and provide care over the phone. And we’re getting rid of longstanding barriers to telehealth in the Medicare program allowing emergency rooms to use telehealth and eliminating requirements that some visits be provided face to face. And I also want to mention that on Saturday, the president directed CMS to offer advanced payments for healthcare providers that are experiencing cashflow problems.
<30:35>
We know that many providers are complying with our recommendations to delay non-essential elective surgeries and they shouldn’t be penalized for doing the right thing. Now, I’ve barely scratched the surface of all the flexibilities that we are offering healthcare workers and healthcare systems. These flexibilities will provide a lot of flexibility from regulations that are ill suited to the unprecedented needs of this emergency and doctors and nurses and other healthcare professionals that are working long hours and sacrificing times with their families and risking their lives will have the flexibility that they need to confront the needs of the coronavirus pandemic.
<31:17>
And there are many heroes in this war, but I want to take an opportunity to thank the team at CMS. These folks have worked day and night. The flexibilities that are in this regulation and any regulation usually take CMS a year. But we did this in two weeks and I couldn’t be more honored and privileged to serve alongside these dedicated public servants. Thank you.
