<01:18:52>
Thank you Mr. Vice president, and let me just start with echoing the president and the vice president’s comments about our condolences to all the people out there that have lost somebody to the coronavirus. And also a sincere appreciation and thanks to all our healthcare workers that are on the front lines. But we know that it’s the impact on the healthcare system isn’t just those front care frontline workers, health care organizations across the nation are having increased expenses. They’re having to spend more on supplies. You’re seeing all of the supplies that are being sent to them and that’s having a direct impact on their bottom line. Many of them are also having increased expenses because they’re taking advantage of some of the flexibilities that we’ve given them. Hospitals without walls, they’re putting you may see tents out in their parking lots where they’re doing testing or screening, so they have a lot of increased expenses as well.
<01:19:46>
Other healthcare organizations are not performing essential surgeries or other services. A lot of them are moving to tele-health and that represents lost revenue for these healthcare organizations across the country. And so the president has asked us to address this issue about 10 days ago, we put out something called accelerated payments that we do in the Medicare program. And it allows us to advance payments to providers based on their historical Medicare revenues that they receive. So just in 10 days we’ve been able to provide payments to providers. We had about 25,000 requests we’ve processed about 70% of these. It’s happened in about five days and the total on that is about $34 billion that we’ve managed to put into the healthcare system. But those are essentially loans.
<01:20:37>
President has asked us to go further with this and to start the implementation of the cares act. That provides $100 billion to the healthcare system. You’ve heard secretary Azar talk about the focus on some of those dollars going towards the uninsured. But the president want us to accelerate getting those dollars out. And so this week we will be putting out another $30 billion which are grants. This is going to be based on Medicare revenue. There are no strings attached.
<01:21:03>
-is going to be based on Medicare revenue. There are no strings attached, so the healthcare providers that are receiving these dollars can essentially spend that in any way that they see fit. Also, this is going to be done very easy, simplified way for many of our healthcare providers. We actually do direct deposit with them and so those dollars will just go right into their bank accounts. For other providers, all it’s going to require is some very simple registration and we’ll be able to give them that money as well. So we’re expecting that to happen this week.
<01:21:32>
The other thing to note is that this is not a first come first serve basis because we are basing this on their Medicare revenue. They will get these dollars, so even if it takes a few days, there shouldn’t be any panic in the system as well.
<01:21:45>
The other thing to recognize here is that our priority was on getting these dollars out as quickly as possible. We heard that from the many healthcare providers across the country that weighed in on this. They said the most important thing was to get these dollars out as quickly as possible. But we recognize that in terms of getting these dollars out because it’s based on Medicare revenues there are providers out there, pediatricians, children’s hospitals, OBGYNs, even our nursing homes that a lot of their revenue comes from other sources, Medicaid or other payer sources. And so those organizations will be addressed in the second tranche of funding and we’ll have a priority for these organizations and these types of healthcare providers.
<01:22:28>
Also just want to say, so together between the loans that we’ve put out there with our accelerated payments and the $30 billion, that’s about $64 billion for the healthcare system this week alone. And so I think again, this is part of our effort to support the healthcare system, and also just want to again say thank you to all our healthcare providers out on the front lines.
<01:22:49>
To all Americans the best thing that we can do to support our healthcare providers is to adhere to those guidelines around 30 days to slow the spread. That is the best thing that we can do to support our healthcare workers. Thank you.
