<10:04>
Great. Thank you, Mr. President. I’m honored to be here today as representing Gap Inc and working with all of you to safely open our stores, which is very important for us right now. I have the honor of running America’s largest clothing company. Gap Inc had over 16 billion in revenue last year, and we house 4 billion dollar brands between Old Navy, Athleta, Banana Republic and our namesake, Gap. And Old Navy is the second largest apparel brand in the US. So we have serviced American families for our 51 years and these brands represent the best of American values and we’re anxious to get going and anxious to open up the economy.
<10:50>
We have 2,500 stores here in the US and we’ve begun the opening process. Prior to COVID, we had over a million American customers walking through our doors every day. And so when we shut in March, we lost 70% of our sales overnight, and we reacted very quickly. We had to make really big unfortunate decisions to furlough employees and to retrench. We did have a very strong and powerful e-commerce business. So we’re the second largest e-com player for apparel and that’s really kept us going along with our fulfillment centers. We have five big campuses across the US and so that’s been great. We have over a hundred thousand employees that we’re anxious to bring back to work.
<11:38>
We’ve developed these safe shopping protocols with industry leaders in retail, and we feel really good about them. We’re anxious to reopen our stores with these protocols and have been excited about what’s happening so far as we’ve opened. Our employees feel safe, our customers feel safe and they’re coming back to shop with us. And so we are committed to opening at least 800 stores this month. And so we’re on track for that. In fact, we’re a little ahead of that, which feels good. And as customers come in, they’ll have new protocols, social distancing, masks, and cleaning, et cetera. So it’s going to create trust and everyone’s responding really well.
<12:16>
I visited our stores in Virginia last night, and I visited our stores in Texas and Arizona, California over the last couple of weeks and our customers are thrilled to be back. Our employees are thrilled to be back. In fact, one of our store managers came up to me and burst into tears thanking me for giving her her job back. It’s a really very important thing. And as much as the government’s helped, our employees want to be back. So that feels great.
<12:44>
One in four Americans work in retail, as you know. So this is now my time to ask what we need. And during this closure process, half of retail stayed open, and half of retail’s been shut. So we’ve really created this lack of level playing field, the haves and the have nots. And as we look forward and as we think about a possibility of a resurgence or something, we must stay committed to these safe retailing protocols and really stay there and work through any future issues with that so we can have an equal playing field. So I look forward to working with you. And Secretary Mnuchin has been fantastic work with.
