<01:18:48>
Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, while our dedicated educators are out there trying to continue to fill our kids with knowledge, even when they’re not in a school site, the USDA is working very hard to continue to fill their tummies. You may know that many of these children receive breakfast and lunch at their school sites, and our federal government participates with our dedicated school nutritional and lunch professionals throughout the country. We have issued waiver after waiver to make this flexibilities available for things that make sense when children cannot congregate in a singular location.
<01:19:23>
That’s one of the first waivers we did, we issued, and when Congress gave us the authority to issue more, we are turning those waivers around in rapid speed, really less than 24 hours. So we’re very fortunate that we’ve got a great team and our food nutrition consumer services team working 24/7 to make sure that our kids continue to be fed. It’s a great partnership that’s happening out there.
<01:19:49>
I want to mention one other simple but very important point about another matter that your listeners and readers may be very interested in. That’s the food supply chain. USDA, obviously, is integrally involved, intimately involved in the food supply chain. We’ve worked with all of those producers, even the ones who provide the equipment and materials for our farmers and cattlemen and producers out there to make sure they have what they need. They’re a part of the critical and essential workforce there to continue, and the good news is those folks are staying on the job. Those who’ve grown it, those who are processing it, our inspectors who are grading it just the same way they always had, those folks who are delivering it, packing it, delivering it, stocking those shelves, and checking out those customers.
<01:20:39>
That’s the great news about our food supply chain, and it’s a great American story. Mr. Vice President, under your leadership, the President’s leadership, this is that whole of America approach. Federal government can’t do it all, but we’ve got great partners out there in the food supply chain as well as our food nutrition services and our partners in our school nutrition services, doing a great job to continue to get these meals to kids there.
<01:21:06>
Two of our private sector partners are here with us today. I’d like for them to tell their story, because it’s a great story. Denton McLane with McLane Global here has partnered with Baylor, a collaborative on poverty and hunger, along with PepsiCo in order to pack a million meals a week to deliver to rural kids, who might not can get to town to these drop-off sites, where the other kids are picking up meals. Again, Niren Chaudhary of Panera Bread, CEO of Panera Bread, their company is also participating in Columbus, Ohio with the Children Hunger Alliance there to deliver food meals that meet the regulations of USDA under flexible conditions there to get food meals there. Panera is looking to expand that to nationwide as well. So Denton, why don’t you come and tell us your story? Thank you very much.
<01:24:11>
I want to welcome Niren Chaudhary, CEO of Panera Bread.
