<26:58>
Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity to be here with you today and to, I want you to know it’s an honor to represent you in leading the Department of Agriculture and represent the constituency who are crucial in maintaining our nation’s food security, enabling us to keep food on the table of our American families. Not only just food, but wholesome and safe food as well.
<27:20>
I’d like to start my remarks today by echoing what my colleagues, the CDC have been saying regarding the health and safety of our essential employees across the United States. CDC’s provided strategies there that aimed at helping our most critical workers both in healthcare and in food processing to quickly and safely to return to work after potential exposure to COVID-19, provided those workers are symptom-free, and this guidance will help these critical industries in the food sector provide that protect the health and safety of essential workers while keeping critical functions working throughout the COVID-19 response.
<27:59>
As we know, any employee who developed symptoms while on the job should go home immediately, and the interim guidances in line with CDC’s recommendations for healthcare workers caring for those sick with COVID-19. So we appreciate the dedication and commitment of all the brave men and women working to keep their communities fed, and we will continue to work with the CDC to keep those individuals as safe as possible during these challenging times.
<28:27>
In that vein, there’s been a lot happening this week as COVID-19 is impacting food processing facilities as you know. For Americans who may be worried about access to good food because of this, I want to assure you the American food supply is strong, resilient, and safe. And in fact, our food supply chain has shown tremendous agility in shifting production and logistics so suddenly from restaurant and institutional settings to retail settings. To all of the employers out there in this sector, it’s critical that you follow CDC guidelines and guidance and best practices to keep all of your employees and people safe and healthy. To employers and local public health officials advising them, the CDC has issued guidelines on how to mitigate a situation if you have a positive case in one of your facilities.
<29:22>
We need our local health authorities and our state health authorities to do everything they can to balance the demand of keeping our facilities operational and our critical industries going, while at the same time keeping the health and safety of employees as a top priority, as well as our communities. So I want to also take this time to thank all of our critical, essential food supply chain workers. The entire country is counting on these patriotic individuals by doing the work in our food supply chain. These dedicated workers include obviously farmers and producers, but also processors, truckers, and grocery store workers, as you know. America’s, depending on what you have-
<30:03>
… workers, as you know. America’s depending on what you have, the food we need to feed our families, and you’re the ones who are making that happen. Thank you. As an entire nation, we’re truly thankful for the work you’re doing, and we recognize that you are the true patriotic heroes during this national emergency along with our healthcare workers. Before I sign off here, Mr. President, I want to remind you and all of us have one more thing. In the United States, we have plenty of food for all of our citizens. I want to be clear. The bare store shelves that you may see in some cities in the country are a demand issue, not a supply issue. The way food is prepared and packaged to be sold in a restaurant or a school is significantly different than the way it’s packaged for you to buy in the grocery store.
<30:47>
Our supply chain is sophisticated, efficient, integrated, and synchronized, and it’s taken us a few days to relocate the misalignment between institutional settings and grocery settings, but that does not mean that we don’t have enough food in this country to feed the American people. You might think of it as an interstate when it’s little flowing along well, and you have a crash at one place. It backs up, and that’s what’s happening in the food supply chain, but we’re working through that. Through all this, our food supply chain has proven to be very resilient just like American people. To the extent we have challenges we have and continue to need to work through it all together, and we can and we will get through this with a whole of America approach, Mr. President, and a critical partnership between state and local health officials and management of companies and the employees, and we will meet any challenges we face by working together. Thank you, sir, for the opportunity.
