<01:10:06>
Madam secretary.
Sec. DeVos: <01:10:07>
Thank you so much Mr. Vice President, and I just want to begin by thanking President Trump for his clear-eyed leadership during these challenging times for our country, and for our world, and vice president Pence for your tremendous leadership of the task force, and for truly making a difference. Making a difference that’s certainly true for America’s students and teachers as well, most of them, as Owen said a moment ago, experiencing unprecedented disruptions in learning, and in their lives. I want each of them to know that President Trump and his administration are taking decisive action, to keep them safe and healthy, so they can continue learning. We must rise to the challenge of educating all children from all walks of life, who all of a sudden are in many, many different learning environments. And they’re counting on all of us to find solutions. I’m really pleased to be here today for the announcement of another terrific solution initiated under the president’s leadership.
Sec. DeVos: <01:11:14>
Secretary Perdue is going to share details of this public private partnership, but before that, I’d like to provide a few additional comments, and talk about the work that the Department of Education has been doing on behalf of students, parents, and teachers during this national emergency. My team and I are in contact daily with governors, state school chiefs, college presidents, superintendents and local education leaders. We are quickly responding to their needs, so they can do the next right thing for their students. Most governors have decided to close some or all schools in their states for a period of time. As a result, students may not be able to take federally mandated standardized tests this spring. And the president took action to make sure they didn’t have to. We made the process to delay these tests for a year fast and painless. As of today, 47 States have requested the delay, or the waiver, and 46 have been approved within a 24-hour period. We also released additional information making clear the expectation that education will continue for all students.
Sec. DeVos: <01:12:25>
The transition to distance and online learning needs to happen quickly, and it needs to include meaningful instruction, and supports for children with disabilities. Learning should not stop or be denied because schools fear federal regulators, or fear doing something different. Distance learning is happening. States like New Hampshire and Florida have implemented phased and tiered approaches to meet the needs of students in their states. Other schools and states are implementing creative approaches and working through practical realities to help students continue learning. In remote Colorado mountain towns without internet connectivity, teachers are putting weekly learning packets together, and they’re holding office hours by phone to help their students when they’re stuck. South Carolina’s deploying 3,000 buses with mobile wifi hotspots, to help kids in remote areas access learning that way. This national emergency gives all of us an opportunity to come together to educate all students out of principle. It’s simply not an acceptable option to educate none of them out of fear. So we stand ready to assist educators, and their students. We’re compiling all of the tools we have produced, along with the great resources that states are offering to help keep learning going.
Sec. DeVos: <01:13:44>
There are already many existing online learning platforms, and many states were already offering a robust menu of courses virtually. We will be adding that information to our website on an ongoing basis, and that site is Ed.gov/ Coronavirus. We’re using every tool possible to extend flexibility to states and communities. This includes funding flexibility. Where we don’t have the latitude, we’re working with Congress on solutions. One area is providing direct financial support to students, families and teachers. We will propose Congress provide micro grants to help students continue to learn. These would be focused toward the most disadvantaged students in our states or communities where their school system has simply shut down. I’ve always believed education funding should be tied to students, not systems, and that necessity has never been more evident. We’ll also support micro grants to teachers, to help them pivot to supporting all of their students in a different environment than they’ve been used to. We know they are dealing with an unprecedented situation, but it’s been truly inspiring to hear story after story of teachers rising to the occasion, and meeting the unique needs of each of their students. Ultimately, we know everyone’s grappling with the challenge of keeping students safe and healthy, while also building…
