<01:16:44>
Thank you, Mr. President. And I just want to reiterate to everyone that the task force and the administration have a commitment to protecting vulnerable people. And that includes, in the area of testing. We’ve had the opportunity to talk to many different groups and we hear that testing is absolutely a concern. And we’ll be giving you more details in the coming days, but I just want you to know that we’re building on the public private partnership that the president rolled out with pharmacy and retail companies like CVS, Walgreens, Rite Aid, Walmart and Kroger, to accelerate testing for more Americans and more communities across the nation. We’re going to be increasing access to testing for under-tested, underserved and minority communities, and we’re working closely with partners and states to establish sites and areas most in need of increased access to testing. We’re using data. CDC, provided data to locate sites and counties that are under tested and socially vulnerable, especially with high populations of Black, Hispanic, rural and Native Americans.
<01:17:49>
We’re using the CDC’s vulnerability index, as you heard about earlier, to select sites. This measures the resilience of communities when confronted by external stressors along four main themes, socioeconomic status, household composition and disability, minority status and housing type. Our goal is to have about two third of these initial sites located in counties with moderate to high social vulnerability, and about a quarter of these sites and counties with high social vulnerability. So again, I want communities that are vulnerable to understand that we are strategically and intentionally making sure we’re deploying testing in those areas, so that people can get identified if they have symptoms, can get identified if they are asymptomatic, and that we will be able to deploy resources appropriately.
<01:18:45>
Thank you.
<01:24:50>
I actually appreciate you asking that question because it’s one that we’ve had to clarify several times, and I understand why the American public has been confused over time. As Dr Redfield mentioned, initially we said based on CDC, World Health Organization and most other major public health organizations, that the public needed to know that these masks were not effective or shown to be effective in preventing you if you wear a mask from catching coronavirus. Another important thing to remember in the context of those statements, was a run on medical masks, on N95 masks, and our healthcare workers were at risk. What’s changed? What’s changed is, we found out that unlike past viruses that are spread through the respiratory route, a significant proportion of coronavirus cases can be traced back to asymptomatic spread. So, the task force deliberated this, we’ve always told you that we will look at the facts and we will give people recommendations based on the best available evidence at the time.
<01:25:51>
And once we saw that asymptomatic spread, we said, “Well, masks still aren’t effective.” And from our point of view, at preventing you from catching coronavirus in a significant way. But we’ve always told people that they should wear masks if they know they have symptoms to prevent them from spreading to other people. Well, now that we know about 25 to 50% of people are spreading asymptomatically, we suggested people wear cloth facial coverings to prevent asymptomatic spread. You wear your mask, to protect me. I wear my mask, and Dr Redfield mentioned it… I’ve got my mask, I believe I have mine on me, Bob. I carry mine around with me too. I wear my mask to protect you. We’re six feet away, which is why I’m not wearing my mask to protect you now. And we also all have been tested, so that’s why I’m not wearing mine now.
<01:26:41>
Well, I’ll put mine on if you want me to, sir.
<01:26:44>
But again, important to know that if you’re going to wear a mask, it’s not a substitute for social distancing. Still, social distancing is the number one thing you can do. Number two, it’s important to know that you should practice good hand hygiene and not touch your face, because you still could touch a surface and bring disease to your face. And number three, is the most important… Well, it’s just as important. Please, save the medical mask, the N95, for the healthcare workers, because the cloth facial coverings are effective as far as we know right now, based on the best available evidence, at preventing you from spreading disease to other people. So, no inconsistency there. It’s just, the recommendation changed because the information changed, and that’s what you want from your public health leaders.
<01:27:35>
Well, I…
<01:27:38>
The honest answer to you is, no, we did not. That was the recommendation of the World Health Organization and the CDC, and we gave you the best information we could at the time. So, I actually a little bit resent that implication, because I work hard to try to protect the American people and we are always going to give the American people the best information we have available at the time.
<01:28:02>
We’re humble enough to say, “look, if we don’t know we’re going to change. We’re going to change with recommendations.”
