<10:04>
We talked about this yesterday when you asked me this question and someone, I think, used the word devastating. And I want to really, again, emphasize to the American public that when we first interacted with this virus for the first time in the February and March timeframe, we didn’t have an understanding of its transmissibility, all of its symptoms. We do now and I think what we are building together and that when we talk about the public health infrastructure, it is very much working on the surveillance piece. But I think we also know the strength of the American people and their ability to immediately understand how to protect themselves with not touching their face, making sure that they’re washing their hands, but the other piece I wanted just to talk about, and we mentioned yesterday also, that we have the summer while we have flu surveillance that we can utilize and syndromic management that we can utilize.
<11:01>
We have all of that time to prepare clearly the testing algorithm that you would need in a flu, potentially, if COVID came back, potentially. And so we are preparing for that potential right now. And I think we spoke to you all about that and talked about how we’re not only preparing for today and tomorrow, but we’re preparing for six months from now, three months from now, and making sure that all of these pieces are in place. I think what Dr. Redfield clearly was asking for, just like we ask for every American to follow the guidelines, he’s saying, “Please add to that guidelines, getting your flu shot and making sure you’re protected.”
<11:47>
We don’t know-
<11:50>
Well, the great thing is we’ll be able to find it earlier this time and I think that’s what we’re talking about. We’ll find those cases earlier. So what Dr. Redfield said, we would be able to stay in containment phase. And what we’re also hoping, and we talked about this about four or five weeks ago, that we’re hoping that the flu infections also go down, because people are much more aware of respiratory illnesses and how to protect themselves. Want you to get your vaccine, but we also want to also protect individuals from getting the flu, because the vulnerability we know in certain populations to flu and the devastating outcomes to flu. We could prevent and decrease both of those things. So I think we are assured that the CDC is putting in place today what we are going to need in the fall so that we can stay in containment if potentially the virus comes back.
