<08:40>
Well thank you Mr. President and good afternoon. With more than 2,900 cases of coronavirus in 49 states across the country I want to assure the American people that this administration, all of our partners, the state level and local health officials have no higher priority than the health and safety of the American public. And at the president’s direction we will continue not only a whole of government approach but as we’ll discuss today we’ll continue to build on a whole of America approach to confront the coronavirus across the country.
<09:17>
The health experts continue to confirm to us that based on the latest information, for the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low. But because the risk is heavily weighted to the most vulnerable, to people with immunodeficiencies and to people who are elderly with serious underlying chronic health conditions. Our administration and I know state administrations will continue to focus on the most vulnerable. And we will continue to urge every American to be vigilant in practicing good hygiene. Taking the advice of the CDC and local health experts to keep those most vulnerable, safe.
<10:04>
I know I speak on behalf of the president and our entire team when I say how grateful we are for governors all across the country and the seamless partnership that we have forged with them and with state health officials, with our federal team. I spoke today to Governor Pritzker of Illinois and we are in continuous communication with governors, a phone call away. They know that they, they can contact us and address even the smallest need. Because as a former governor, I know firsthand that when it comes to health challenges in America, our states are on the ground in the lead, our local health organizations and we’ve built a great partnership.
<10:47>
We also want to express great appreciation to the American people. Not surprisingly, it is inspiring to see the way tens of millions of Americans are responding with compassion, with common sense. And we want to express particular gratitude to communities of faith that participated in today’s National Day of Prayer.
<11:06>
We’ve seen places of worship, implementing policies to keep those most vulnerable, safe. And also we’re seeing communities of faith already stepping forward to support and to encourage those most vulnerable. I heard tell of a church back in Indiana that’s actually no longer having services until April 10th. But in the meantime there’ll be offering daycare to the children of healthcare workers in central Indiana. And churches all across the country are taking the opportunity to reach out and put feed on their faith and it’s, it’s truly inspiring.
<11:44>
As president mentioned today, he spoke today to leaders in the grocery store industry and where people buy our food. And we heard and were reminded that America has the most efficient and effective supply chain in the world. And it’s working just fine. As the president said, he received a commitment from those a grocery store executives that stores will stay open throughout the days that lie ahead.
<12:14>
We were told that hours may be reduced to allow for cleaning and to resupply, but American families can be confident. Your local grocery store is going to be open, it’s going to be well supplied and they specifically asked us to encourage Americans just buy your weekly needs and grocery. Because the grocery stores will remain open.
<12:36>
Also very movingly those same executives all reiterated their commitment to continue to support local food banks in the way that our grocers continue to do around America. Tomorrow president and I will be briefing all the nation’s governors of states and territories and the District of Columbia. We will be speaking about the progress that we’re making and we’ll be speaking to them specifically about our widening partnership on expanding testing to the American people.
<13:07>
So allow me to speak to that issue and then I’m going to recognize Admiral Brett Giroir who will describe for us the the excellent work that public health services doing. Dr. Burks will describe the importance of the new national public private partnership for diagnostic testing that is going to open the door to the thousands of more tests in real time for the American people in the days ahead.
<13:37>
First, some fundamentals. As the American people know, testing is now available in all 50 States. Either state labs are either conducting the tests themselves or the CDC is processing tests. They’re using the traditional manner of a manual test that allows for 40 to 60 tests a day. It is among the reasons why the president several weeks ago tasked for this group at the White House to reach out to commercial labs around the country and forge that public/private partnership that would bring the high speed, or more accurately the high throughput testing, for coronavirus available in real time. And based on the unprecedented speed of the FDA, which last week approved high throughput coronavirus testings for Roche and Thermo Fisher. We will now have access in the days ahead to more than 2000 labs across the country that have the equipment today to process coronavirus tests much more rapidly in a much higher volume for the American people.
<14:46>
In terms of delivering those services more than 10 States in addition to a CDC labs, public health labs and labs that states can now authorize in their states. More than 10 States have implemented their own drive through testing sites. And we want to commend New York, Colorado, Delaware, Washington State, Texas, and others that have implemented these onsite places where people can obtain tests. Most are using the current CDC testing, the manual testing. But we are working closely with our governors, as you will hear momentarily, to make sure that the new testing regimen is available for their remote sites as well.
<15:33>
As I mentioned as of Monday, we will have more than 2000 labs coming online with the high speed testing. And we are connecting states to those testing methods. We’re also working with a number of retail partners to add to the work that states are doing around the country. Working to set up parking lot testing centers outside of stores and Admiral Brett Giroir will detail the progress that we’ve made over the last 72 hours.
<16:04>
Following the president’s declaration of emergency the Admiral and our public health service of have forged a partnership now with FEMA made possible by that declaration. And they’ve reached out to all 50 States to create a process that will enable all Americans who need to be tested to go to a community based testing site outside of usual healthcare facilities. The focus of these tests as Dr Burks will describe momentarily will be on the those most in need. A priority will be placed on healthcare workers and first responders who are out there coming alongside people that are being impacted by the coronavirus. We want to make sure they have access to the testing as a priority. And then Americans 65 or over with a cough or a fever or other symptoms will be prioritized over other tests that are extended.
<17:01>
As I mentioned, Admiral Giroir will describe the progress that we’ve made in just a few moments. But we’re going to continue to work very diligently, hour by hour, day by day in the days ahead to expand testing around the country. And access to this extraordinary and unprecedented national public/ private partnership for diagnostic testing.
<17:24>
With regard to testing, as we expand testing, we’re so pleased that Congress joined with our administration to make sure that cost is never going to be a barrier to anyone getting a coronavirus test. As you recall, several weeks ago the president directed a change in our Medicare and Medicaid programs to ensure the coronavirus testing was included. Health insurers were brought in, they all agreed to waive copays. But because of the good bipartisan work done in the House of Representatives now all coronavirus testing is free and it’s free for every American, including uninsured Americans. And we continue to urge passage of the legislation that will be considered by the Senate this week.
<18:08>
Let me say one final word about the testing issue. And that is that as the president often says, “We’re all in this together.” And it’s absolutely important that as we expand testing resources across the country, beginning by prioritizing the areas that CDC and our state leadership tell us are most important. It’s important that the tests are available for people that are most in need and for our healthcare workers and first responders that are helping them and supporting them. As Dr. Burks will describe, the testing that is available should only be done if for any reason you think you may have the coronavirus. We encourage people to consult their doctor and if you’re symptom free, we then encourage you to work with us to make sure the testing is available for people that are experiencing symptoms.
<19:10>
It’s extremely important that we have the continuing cooperation of every American as we expand testing and make it available during this challenging time in the life of our nation. With that, I’m going to ask Admiral Brett Giroir of the Public Health Service and leader of this great commission corps behind me to come up and describe the extraordinary work that they have done over the last 72 hours. And will be doing each and every day in conjunction with our states to expand testing to community based testing across the country for the American people using this new public/private partnership diagnostic testing. Admiral.
<28:03>
Thank you, Admiral. And let me say we are moving out now that we have the public private partnership with the major commercial labs, and now you have our public health team as well as FEMA moving out, connecting to the states to deploy these point of distribution community centers. We’ll also be working closely with members of the media and individual jurisdictions, as well as we’re working with Google and other tech companies to make sure that there’s online resources where people will be able to readily access a questionnaire that will walk them through the symptoms, and whether or not a test might be indicated. And also in the days ahead, we look forward to that same website being able to direct people to the nearest community center or drive through center that’s available.
<28:54>
But me let me introduce Dr. Deborah Birx to speak about that patient experience, and about the importance of the right people seeking the testing in the days ahead. Doctor.
<34:48>
Dr. Fauci.
<36:44>
Questions? Yes.
<37:22>
Well, we will have updated guidelines tomorrow morning for you that are being vetted now with CDC and all of our top healthcare experts. But what I would just recommend to the American people is to review those federal guidelines, and know that we’ll also respect and defer to decisions that are made by governors, by state health departments about what’s best for that community. What my healthcare team, some of the best people in the world, tell me very regularly, is that it’s very important that you follow the data. And you make decisions based on the circumstances that are taking place in that community. But we’ll have more broad based recommendations for the American public tomorrow. And let me say, I’m going to ask the Secretary to come up and speak about the screening issue. The president made a decision to suspend all travel from Europe. That is underway now, and as of midnight Monday night, we will be suspending all travel from the UK and Ireland as well. But Americans may come home. But out of an abundance of caution, we are engaging in healthcare screenings at 13 different airports around the country and working diligently in that regard to put the safety of the American public first. And we’re asking returning Americans to self quarantine for 14 days if they’ve been in those countries in Europe. And as of Monday, the UK and Ireland that are being impacted by the Coronavirus. But the Secretary and I spoke this morning, I spoke with Governor Pritzker and Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois this morning about some challenges at O’Hare airport, and I’m going to let the Secretary speak to how we are addressing those going forward. Mr. Secretary.
<41:21>
Very good. Good job.
<42:05>
Well, everything that the White House Coronavirus Task Force does is at the direction of the President of the United States. All the efforts of all federal agencies and cooperation with state governments and local health officials is reflective of the decisive leadership the President has brought this early on. It’s important to remember that the President on January 31st suspended all travel from China.
<42:35>
I said to Dr. Fauci who I’ll call up to address your other question in a moment. I said to Dr. Fauci today, as we look at Europe now being the epicenter of the coronavirus, I asked him if we had not suspended all travel from China, what our circumstance would be, and he essentially said we’d be where Europe is today.
<42:58>
And the President also the actions with regard to Europe and recently expanded those. So the American people can be confident that President Trump is going to continue to act without hesitation on the advice of our healthcare professionals to put the health and safety of the American people first. But with regard to the statement that you made, I’m going to let Dr. Fauci address that as well.
<44:38>
Let me let the secretary step up. I know that there’s a longterm planning that takes place at HHS for those circumstances, and when I traveled to HHS yesterday, we reviewed all the numbers about stockpiles, everything from masks to ventilators to gowns. Mr. Secretary, you might just speak about capacity issues. And let me say it’s a very good question on your part. Right now our focus as the White House Coronavirus Task Force is to have widespread testing across the country using this new partnership with our commercial labs that the president has forged, and work with states to make those tests available. We’re also going to continue to work every single day to promote best practices for mitigation and working closely with and supporting state governments for decisions that they’re making on mitigation to prevent the spread. But the whole issue of personal protective equipment and supplies and the capacity of our healthcare system is in the forefront of what we’re talking about every day and the Secretary can address it.
<49:37>
Very good. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
<49:42>
Go ahead.
<50:08>
Well, let me say that we’re working with Google, but we’re working with many other tech companies and we’re truly grateful for the efforts of tech companies in disseminating best practices and guidance for citizens online all over the country today. Those resources are available in it. We literally heard not only from Google, but from Facebook and Amazon, and the public spiritedness that’s been reflected there is a credit to those great companies and a credit to all the dedicated Americans who worked there.
<50:43>
Our best estimate, and literally the team has been working around the clock since Friday, is that at some point early in the week that we will have a website that goes up, the purpose of which will be for people to go and first fill out a questionnaire so that they can identify whether they fall in the category that Dr. Burks described would indicate the need to have a test. And then once they go through that questionnaire, then our objective is as more and more of these sites come online, run by state governments working in cooperation with our team, our public health service team, and FEMA, and also working in cooperation with local businesses and retailers, that people will know how to not only find it, but also the objective would be for them to literally be given a time that they can go and report for the test. But let me let the Admiral speak to the timing on the testing and unpack that for you.
<55:41>
Well first let me say we strongly support the House legislation, which while it gives some flexibility to small businesses, which will be reflected in the regulations going forward, no American workers should worry about missing a paycheck if they’re feeling ill. And we can’t say often enough to our fellow Americans, if you’re sick with a respiratory ailment, stay home. And as you’ve heard here today, over the course of this next week, we’re going to see testing become much more widely available beginning in the areas the CDC will focus us as the highest priority. But working with members of Congress, we’ve made sure that not only is testing free, but we have every confidence that the extension of paid and family leave to Americans will be extended in a way that will… Should give every American that confidence.
<56:46>
And let me say with regard to the economy as a whole, I think the Treasury Secretary and then working very diligently on the President’s behalf, we have the supplemental eight point $3 billion bill. The House has now acted on important legislation that we fully support, and we hope the Senate takes it up this week. But whether it be the airline industry, or the cruise line industry, or the hotel industry, as the Secretary said recently, we are in just the first few innings of this effort. And the President has directed us to bring the full weight of the federal government to bear to confront this crisis, first and foremost on behalf of the health and safety and the American public, but strengthening our economy, ensuring that those vital industries will be able to find their way through and grow strongly once this coronavirus has passed will be a priority.
<57:43>
And we’re already in discussions with members of Congress in both parties about that next phase of the support. But let me say as I close, we will be back in the morning tomorrow for a briefing, and also we’ll have a health briefing in the afternoon. But again, I know I speak on behalf of the President when I say how grateful we are for all the governors in the country, for all the local health officials, everyone that’s coming alongside Americans. We encourage every American to continue to use best practices and common sense. Even if you’re not in a high risk category, as the vast majority of Americans are, remember those people around you who may well be. Remember those seniors with underlying health conditions.
<58:36>
It’s the reason why you need to keep washing your hands. You need to keep practicing good hygiene, cleaning those counters and surfaces to make sure that we don’t convey the coronavirus to them. And finally, let me add to all the wonderful accolades of the public health service personnel behind me. These are all heroes. And I have to tell you, having been over at HHS yesterday, having seen the way these people dropped everything and are rolling into this effort to expand testing across the country, it’ll be these people in these blue uniforms that you see at an awful lot of these points of distribution, these community centers around the country. And for all they’re doing today, for all each one of them done throughout their career. I know they have the thanks of this President, his Vice President, and the American people. Thank you.
