<43:56>
Thank you Mr. President, Warren Davidson from Ohio. Definitely an honor to be included on this task force and be here really to work with you to help this transition to greatness. You’ve had great messages, it’s resonated with the whole country, but definitely with the people of Ohio. We love you, look forward to you coming back. I think the example that you set when you talked about the governors leading the way, because the states really have had different experiences and different approaches to dealing with this virus, but also a legacy of dealing with problems in a different way. And you see the legacy costs in states like Illinois, where 58% of their budget goes to pensions and states like Ohio where we have a rainy day fund and we reformed our pensions and have been responsible with our spending.
<44:49>
That approach is important. It’s important in the way that Attorney General Barr has recognized in terms of defending civil liberties. Every single one of us wants to protect public health and we’re all anxious to grow our economy and get it back. But we all swore that same oath I swore in the Army to support and defend our Constitution against all enemies foreign and domestic. So we take that very seriously in the civil liberties that have been infringed upon, the sense of freedom and the sense of identity as Americans that’s under attack in this era. Having the Department of Justice say we are going to defend freedom and lead that example is a big deal. And as we confront all these ideas on how to deal with safety, it’s important to remember that even the Patriot Act expansion, it was just temporary. It was supposed to expire.
<45:44>
And a lot of those same sense of urgency that came in after 9/11, led to the expansion of FISA and the Patriot Act and the way it was abused against many people and very publicly against you was really just to keep us safe and just for now. But we still-
<46:03>
… was really just to keep us safe and just for now. But we still haven’t really been able to reform Pfizer. We still have a chance to do that. But the temptation is always, but just to keep us safe. And some of the ideas with privacy, just to keep us safe at the CDC; tracing and quarantining and tracking everybody, could be just as dangerous. So it’s a good safe guard against that. And then I think the last thing is we’re talking about VE day. The last time the planet had this much debt was after World War II, after the United States. So the fed has been tremendous in trying to provide stability in the face of governments, largely closing our economy. So we did owe it to people to try to provide the stability that we did. But most people realize that you can’t print an entire year of GDP.
<46:49>
So we do have to be cautious about unsettling the monetary system. It’s worked great for us since Bretton woods. We have been the world’s reserve currency. And we wouldn’t want to give that up by being foolish with the amount of printing we’re doing. Because it’s not being lent. There’s no lender, we’re not really borrowing it. We’re printing it. And that’s undermining the value of the full faith and credit of the United States. We have lots of countries doing that around the world, and the dollar still is the strong one. But we should be cautious to think that we can somehow do this in an unlimited way. So thanks for the things you’re doing and the leadership you’re doing. Leading by example and it’s an honor to be part of it. Thank you.
