<49:00>
Thank you Mr. Kushner, Mr. Vice President. So today I’m going to cover a couple items. A couple of five things.
<49:08>
First thing I want to talk about is resources pushed out from the federal government. And then I’m going to talk about this Air Bridge, which you may have heard about. I’m going to talk about data as you said, Mr. Kushner is absolutely right. We’re trying to be data driven. And then I’m going to talk a little bit about how we’re trying to expand the industrial base here to meet this challenge.
<49:36>
So the first thing I want to talk about is surgical masks. So you’ve quickly stated numbers here. So I’m about to go through several different slides to give you just scale and magnitude federal resources that have been applied at the problem. So 27.1 million surgical masks pushed out to state governments. For N95 masks, 19.5 million N95 masks.
<50:10>
And so if I was in a local hospital that was running short, I would look upward because the federal government has pushed out resources. So for protective gloves, 22.4 million pairs of protective gloves. For face shields, 5.2 million face shields. For ventilator we have pushed to the States more than 7,600 ventilators and I think as I was coming over here, that number has changed slightly. I think it’s now 7,640 given to predominantly these States. So we wanted you to have some numbers.
<51:01>
Now as we’ve indicated, we had ventilators in the national stockpile. We pushed ventilators out. We’re holding ventilators to put to the point to need. But we’re also buying ventilators, asking the industrial base who produces prior to COVID, approximately 30,000 ventilators a year. We are going to over the next several months, by the end of June work to acquire a hundred thousand.
<51:37>
And so one of the tools that I can anticipate needing, we’ve already executed is all of those vendors that we’re buying them from potentially will need help in their supply chains with their suppliers. We might rate orders, we might help them get ahead of others in that endeavor. So I think Mr. Navarro is going to talk a little bit more on that later.
<52:05>
So let me talk about the Airbridge. So it normally takes approximately 37 days to get from overseas, get product, load it, get it to the United States and distribute it. That’s about 37 days. So to prime the pump, so to speak, we have lined on an Airbridge to get product here faster. Working with our major suppliers as they work to fill orders to get more to health care workers now. We are working to align transportation to product.
<52:52>
And one of the things we’re also doing is the team that works for me are scouring the globe and finding pockets of personal protective equipment that might not otherwise be in the US hospital supply chain. That is also going on these flights. Six completed and a number scheduled. 28 flights scheduled here in the near future. Where we are working towards some days we’ll have one flight, some days that might be two flights, multiple flights over the next coming days.
<53:27>
These 28 or as far as I can see out a couple of weeks. Then again, matching product to flights to create volume in the supply chain here faster than the 37 days. I’m just going to leave that up as I talk about a few other items.
<53:49>
So let’s talk about New York city and the public health hospitals. I believe they’re called New York City Health and Hospitals. President directed, as I speak there are pallets being formed, a truck being loaded. I gave an address in New York City here an hour or two ago and one of our distributors is making that happen and that delivery will happen tomorrow.
<54:24>
On the data front. This is almost unprecedented. This is a commercial supply chain with six to seven major distributors of health equipment. We brought them all in and we said, we need to make informed decisions and we are going to help make informed allocation decisions. So within the matter of days feeding from their business systems, their enterprise resource like systems, I brought onboard a tool, a supply chain tower that the DOD was using to manage a supply chain for a very complex weapon system. Their data goes into a data link. We have a tool to be able to use their data and see it. I can tell what product is coming in. What their orders are, what they’re filling, what they’re not filling and see the volume in the supply chain and understand what they’re doing down to the county level. We’re working to get it potentially down to the hospital level.
<55:34>
So this 200 and some odd N95 respirators. We took a look in there in the supply chain we said we have the volume to go do that. I called the distributor and they’re making that happen. We anticipate as the hotspots around the country, we anticipate these vendors at our direction, helping them allocate product to the right place at the right time.
<56:05>
So if I talk finally about expanding the industrial base. So the Vice President was at Walmart the other day who told him, I want to get in this game, how do I do that? So I got the call. We provided them specifications and Walmart is going to use their suppliers to cut fabric, make gowns, sew product. But that’s not always the case. We have lots of folks that want to help. I believe you will see in the coming days the use of the Defense Production Act in creative ways to help people that are not doing this today to do it.
<56:44>
We have essentially leads. The number yesterday was 210 I believe, it probably grew today, that we are working with to find how each one of those might need help to get in the game that’s not in the game to increase the throughput through the healthcare market.
<57:06>
Again, the President gave me one task, get more to our healthcare workers now. And I took that to heart because not that I don’t need that from the President that direction to move out, but I have family in New York. My sister’s a nurse practitioner in a Westchester Hospital and my niece is a nurse on a Long Island Hospital and I have other health care professionals in the family. So I have skin in this game. The President asked me to get more to the healthcare workers. I’m going to get more to healthcare workers. Like to hand over to Mr. Navarro.
<57:46>
The 200,000 is going out as we speak.
<57:55>
It’ll be delivered tomorrow.
<58:15>
To the Public Health Warehouse in New York City.
<58:37>
I’m going to answer you this way. We put up a lot of numbers. I said that if you’re a hospital and you’re not seeing PPE, I would up to the state level first.
<59:13>
So this product that we’re moving is primarily a commercial product that would enter the commercial system and be distributed through a financial business transactions between hospitals and these distributors.
<59:46>
So that’s normally how things work, right? So I’m not here to disrupt a supply chain. Say look these six distributors, six, seven, they have six to 700 warehouses. They have trucks to go to the hospital door every day. We’re bringing product in. They’re filling orders for hospitals, nursing homes, like normal. I’m putting volume into that system.
<01:00:22>
So we put together this data element over the last 13 days. Get the people in, look at the problem, build this. I am now seeing truth about what’s in the supply chain and I would say that there’s been some abnormal behavior. Okay.
<01:00:59>
Yeah, so we’ll have Mr. Navarro talk about that. We’re online to receive several thousand ventilators in the month of April and several thousand more ventilators in the month of May ramping up to a big number in June. Again, going from an industry that produces about 30,000 annually to a very big number.
<01:01:33>
So we’re marrying up where CDC, where the demand for COVID is to what’s in the commercial system. We’re providing that to the commercial system and we are making allocations to those of most pressing need. 13 days. We now have the data. We now can make informed decisions. And so all of the I need, I need, I need, I now know the volume that has been happening and needs to be happening.
<01:02:44>
<crosstalk 01:02:44> Yeah, I’m going to let Mr. Navarro talk about that.
<01:02:50>
<crosstalk 01:02:50> When the time comes. We are-
