<01:25:32>
So, let me clarify, and I know you probably understand this, is the antibody test does not tell you if you have the active virus in your nose. If you are positive for the antibody, it strongly implies, it means that you have had the virus before, and to the degree that we know of medical knowledge, you will probably highly probably be protected against getting the virus again in the future.
<01:25:57>
So I want to make something clear. There’s no antibody test approved. Okay? Approved is not a word we talk about. There is a test or two that has received emergency use authorization, and many, many, many others out there that have not gone that way yet, and I want to take this opportunity to caution. There is a very consolidated effort between the FDA, CDC, NIH, to validate some of the tests that are on the market right now, because it is very important that they actually do what they say they do, and we have reason to believe that not all of them are going to perform well. I don’t know the primary source, but the Financial Times just reported that the UK had 17.5 million antibody tests that they bought and none of them work.
<01:26:45>
So we’re not going to get in that situation. We’re going to be very careful to make sure that when we tell you you’re likely immune from the disease, that test really said that. Now I will also make a statement, and there’s a lot of work on here and I’m very excited about it, as opposed to the test for a novel virus, the antibody type tests are very sophisticated technology, but they’re old technology. This, we expect to have many tens of millions of tests the first month that we are really sure that the test makes sense. So, this allows for surveillance screening, and Dr. Birx is one of the world experts to understand, is 1%, 5%, 20% of Americans have been infected, but it also allows us to have very widespread tens and tens of millions of people screened with a finger prick on the spot.
<01:27:43>
So, science doesn’t run on rails, right? So you need to make sure that the FDA, the NIH, which they’re actively doing right now, assure that the tests that they’re testing really do perform the way they should. And if things work out the way we believe they will, we will have millions on the market by May in a sophisticated way, in a prospective way, that we get the surveillance we need, we can test people to see if they’ve been exposed, immune, and go back to work, and a combination of that kind of test with the current kind of test we have now is how America opens back up.
<01:28:25>
Well, we are having active discussions under the leadership of Dr. Birx and the task force, but you can imagine how that is, right, but with tens and tens and tens of millions of tests per month that are available, you could really do very widespread testing, but let me just give you an example.
<02:06:46>
I don’t really have much more to add to that. The vice president is certainly well-informed about that and I want to assure you that all the sourcing around the world, if it’s there, we’re putting it in our supply chains. We’re buying more. Manufacturers are stepping up to the plate and this is going not just by percent allocation, but it’s going to the exact places that need it, in the quantities that they need to take care of patients.
<02:07:11>
And we want to make sure this is a two way street. We get the data in from individual hospitals to know exactly what their burn rate is, exactly what they need and we want to make sure that they feel comfortable that they’re going to have supplies because they will, because part of this is about potential shortages other place, some places, most of it’s about a fear of a shortage. If I’m a physician in an ICU and I’m not sure that it’s going to be there, that’s going to scare me, it’s going to scare my nurses. We want everyone to have that assurance that we will provide you what you need over a week’s periods of time exactly to your need.
<02:07:47>
And Admiral Polowczyk and his team, and again, it’s all military in there. I mean he is the logistics guy for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, right. This is what he does. He is a wizard. He has a… there are more stars around me in the DOD part of the military than I’ve generally seen outside of the Pentagon. This is really being run as a military operation. I’m in the US Public Health Service, so we’re part of HHS. The surgeon general, and I have the honor of running that service. We are shoulder to shoulder in the field, in the military hospitals with everyone else. There are only 6,100 of us. 3,000 are doing direct patient care on a daily basis. We take care of the Indian Health Service, the Bureau of Prisons, those in detention at the border, et cetera. That’s what we do. The other 3, 000, over 2,000 of those are in the field already taking care of patients directly and we have more going out the door every day.
<02:08:50>
This has been a very cooperative interaction. I bet I talk to five governors a day and we talk out the issues and understand what they perceive in their state. They often help us… help point us to particular areas that may… that they feel need more attention or there needs more communication. It’s been very productive. I have to look up what governor goes to what state because I’m not… that’s not my world, but it’s been a very productive interaction.
<02:09:20>
I think all of this is necessary. I’m on almost every governor’s call with the vice president. They’re very meaningful. They’re impactful. They’re informative. They’re communicative. We talk to each other. But then we do get down to the individual hospital level, because when the rubber meets the road, you got to know what the docs, nurses, respiratory therapists, the people who clean the rooms are important part of the team. I want them to come to every work saying, “It’s not that I cleaned a room, I’m saving lives today.” And they are saving lives by keeping the viruses off the surfaces and reducing transmission. You’ve really got to get that granular, and we’re to a point with Admiral P’s… you have two admirals with the worst pronounced names in the world. So Admiral P. I’m Admiral G, but Admiral P’s team really has this covered down to the individual hospital level.
