<30:29>
Thank you, sir. What I thought I would do is update on the Airbridge first and then follow up on Dr. Birx and how we’re geographically aligning the supply chain. So the Airbridge we had three additional flights come in today bringing a million gowns, 2.8 million N95 masks, 2.8 million surgical masks, 11.8 million gloves, 18.6 thousand gowns on three flights, and that material will be pushed out across the nation, delivered to hospitals, nursing homes across the country.
<31:22>
Dr. Birx went through the geography, and so over the last few days I’ve been aligning the supply chain to those areas and then reaching down into those areas and extracting data from those areas on PPE burn rates. For example, I spent the weekend talking to the Chief Operating Officer of Detroit, Hakim Berry, for example, then talked to the leadership at Detroit Medical Center, Audrey Gregory, talked to the health officer in Oakland County, Michigan, and then also with the Chicago Health Officer, Dr. Allison Arwady, so reaching down to a level to understand their needs.
<32:14>
So we’re geographically aligning the supply chain. You can see Dr. Birx went through these counties and we’re getting down to the county level and then aligning it by priorities of point of care; public hospitals first, VA hospitals, private hospitals, nursing homes, first responders, acute care. Over the coming days, we will be making a push to the geographic areas that Dr. Birx mentioned, increasing the volume through the supply chain to those areas to give them weeks, not just days worth of supply. Primarily using our industry partners that we are directing; Cardinal, McKesson, Medline, Owen Minor, Henry Schein, Concordance Healthcare, directing them to put product to the hospital door, the nursing home door, the first responders, directly to them.
<33:21>
We’re also going to be working to push out millions of doses of hydroxychloride. We are working the distribution there to push the same thing to the same impacted areas, working it to get into hospitals and to every pharmacy, and so my team is back there right now working the arrangements to make that to the hospital front door and primarily to the local pharmacies so a doctor can write those prescriptions and you can get it prior to having to go to a home.
