<56:24>
So I can talk a little bit more about testing later on. But as the president said, 1.79 million tests have been done, and this does not count the hundreds of thousands of tests that are done within hospitals that are now currently not reporting. So I’m sure we’re well over 2 million.
<56:42>
That inspector general report was done here, 23rd, 24th during our ramp up period, quite a long time ago. There was clearly, and it’s hard to interpret the report because it mixes up all kinds of things, but clearly there was complaints by some hospitals of a backlog, probably had sent out tests. And that is true. There were several days of backlog at some of the major labs that have been taken care of. We know now that the ACLA labs now have a 24 to 48 hour turnaround. They’re doing well over 100,000 tests a day. We now have the Abbott machine that’s point of care, that’s 18,000 of those instruments throughout the country. The <inaudible 00:57:25> machine is now all across the country with a 45 minute turnaround. So we have worked directly with many of the hospitals that have their own laboratory derived tests. Some of those really quite frankly didn’t understand the regulatory freedom they have to use other different kinds of instruments or different kinds of reagents. So like they do now, like they do now. And I’m on the phone with them all the time to make sure that everything is clear. We have a 24 hour call number. But that’s what it was there for.
<57:58>
And I don’t know the inspector general. I don’t know that person. I tell you one thing I have a problem with. If there was such a problem that she knew about or he knew about on March 23rd and 24th why did I find out about the test from them on the news media at eight o’clock this morning? If there was a problem, I think you’re ethically obliged to tell me where that is so we can interact with it like I do every single day. But that’s a discussion for the future. I think testing is really in a good position right now and I’m happy to expand on some of the really good tests that are coming up.
<59:23>
I’m not going to tell you how many are in the stockpile, but I can tell you that we look at ventilator use granularly every single day in every single state and down to the hospital level. So we have been able to meet and easily meet all the ventilator requirements that have been brought us by the state. No one has not gotten the ventilator that needs a ventilator and as far as we can project looking at all models, every person who needs a ventilator will get a ventilator.
<59:50>
I’m a ventilator doc, right? I’m an ICU physician for children, spent every day of my life managing people on ventilators. This is my community. It’s also the Surgeon General’s community as an anesthesiologist. So what we have in the stockpile I think is not a number that we give out, but we have thousands remaining in the stockpile, and now you’re seeing either out of the appropriate American spirit that when a state like Washington or California doesn’t need that ventilator, they’re doing the right thing by moving them around the country.
