<31:46>
Thank you Mr president. And thank you ambassador Birx. If I could have the next slide please. I want to spend just a couple of minutes about going over where we’ve been, but more importantly, where we’re going. I think we all can understand how we can group this into three distinct…
<32:03>
I think we all can understand how we can group this into three distinct phases. First is our launch phase. When we were really engaging the emerging epidemic and the types of things we need to do. For example, mobilize the private sector to develop tests and have EUAs. And I think you know, over the past two months the FDA has issued 67 Emergency Use Authorizations, which is far outpacing anything that has been done or could ever been imagined. Galvanizing the research community and the commercial labs. The reason why we’re here with ACLA Labs having done about three million tests is because of that day when it was galvanized by the President and the Vice President.
<32:40>
We also set models in the community. Those first community-based testing sites that were federally supported, and really under the direction of the US Public Health Service, people who had been in Japan testing people on the Diamond Princess to assure that it would be done right and it would be done safely for everyone involved.
<32:58>
Then we moved to really scaling. That phase was very, very important because we knew we needed to be at an immense scale to enter the third phase about supporting opening again. This again, for example, a lot of my life is about swabs. It was enhancing the production capability of a small company in Maine called Puritan, that you’ll hear a whole lot more about, that is sort of the swap provider for the country. But also because of the FDA actions and the actions of scientific community being able to broaden the types to spun polyester. So US Cotton can now come in and start delivering within the next couple of weeks 3 million swabs per week of a different type. It also did things like expanding the community based testing sites. Whereas we started small with the commercial partners, you see today, right now, we have 73 of this 2.0 sites going to 110.
<33:52>
And very importantly, this demonstrated the model and 68% of those sites are in communities of moderate or high social vulnerability. And 22% are in the highest social vulnerability communities so that we can make sure the testing gets where it needs to be. You’ve just heard that that could be expanded to thousands of sites.
<34:12>
And finally, Stage Three, which is very exciting. Coordinating with governors to support testing plans and rapid response programs. Over the past week, a multidisciplinary team from the White House, HHS, FDA, FEMA has met virtually with multidisciplinary teams from every State, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia to understand what their testing aspirations are, and to make sure that we can meet those demands. We’re going to have another round of those calls this week. But as we talked about earlier today, we will be able to supply every state with the supplies and the tests that they need, that will dramatically increase the number of tests we’ve done to this point.
<34:57>
Just to give you an idea, the supplies that we will be providing to States, the minimum that we’re supplying to States, is approximately double in that month then the Republic of Korea has performed in the four months to now accumulated. To give you an idea of the amount of testing that we’re going to be doing.
<35:16>
So, I’m very exciting right now as we complete this ecosystem with the large reference labs, the LabCorp and Quest, providing the very high throughput, large scale testing. The galvanizing of the hospitals and academic labs that Dr. Birx has done by a machine to machine understanding and promoting that with the governors. And, of course, using point-of-care testing when and where that’s very important to stop outbreaks, or in remote areas like in the Indian Health Service or in Alaska. Thank you, Mr. President.
<48:49>
Thank you Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. The number of tests that need to be done depends on the state level. You understand that places where there’s high virus circulating will need many, many more tests. Places that do not have high virus circulating may need less tests. But let’s just assume Dr. Fauci was talking about about a four million per month number, which was sort of a week ago where we are. So we will, according to the governor’s plans for next month, we will easily double that four million number. We will have over 20 million swabs that we’re going to send out. We will have over 15 million tubes of media. We have all the tests matched machine to machine in a focused area. We’ve gone state by state and understand that.
<49:39>
And this is not even including what you just heard, the five million per month test by LabCorp and Quest, or the point of care test by Abbott, or all the other tests that are out there. So in May, we are going to be doing more testing in this country. And people talk about South Korea a lot. The states with the least amount of testing will double the overall cumulative number per capita that South Korea has done in four months, to give you that understanding.
