<24:04>
Well, Mr. President, thank you for what you’ve done throughout your administration to protect older Americans, and to help them live longer, healthier, more active lives. Before the COVID-19 pandemic struck, your administration had already put a major focus on keeping our older Americans healthy and safe, and that focus has continued during the current pandemic. During this crisis, thanks to new funding secured by the President, HHS’s administration for community living has pushed out more than a billion dollars for services for our older Americans that they need to stay comfortably in their homes. That’s more than a 50% boost in the annual support that we provide for community organizations that provide services like delivered meals, help with trips to the grocery store, to the doctor, and assistance with chores at home.
<24:55>
We’re also making it a top priority to protect older Americans from a public health perspective. We’ve required States to put a significant focus on older Americans and nursing homes in all of their COVID-19 work, especially the state testing plans that they’ve now submitted. And we’re working very closely with the States to make sure that that’s the case. We’ve deployed CDC, experts and members of the public health service commission corps to prevent and respond to outbreaks in our nursing homes. We also know that isolation due to extended stay at home orders can make some older Americans more susceptible to the types of abuse, neglect, and financial exploitation that we’re talking about today.
<25:35>
This past week, I addressed that topic as part of a meeting of the Elder Justice Coordinating Council, which I chair as HHS secretary. Last week, we added the Department of Homeland Security to the EJCC as the 15th member agency, reflecting the President’s commitment to protecting our seniors from abuse. In 2018, we made a focused effort to expand the work of EJCC and dedicate funding to prevent and combat abuse of our older Americans, that results from our country’s opioid crisis. Through the work of agencies across the Trump administration, we’ve made great progress in strengthening and improving our federal response to older American maltreatment in recent years.
<26:15>
Under President Trump, in 2018, all 50 States began participating for the first time in the National Adult Maltreatment Reporting System, which produces data that’s been widely acknowledged as necessary to drive action and implement reforms. In March when the Justice Department announced its national nursing home initiative, Attorney General Barr was joined by our Assistant Secretary for Aging, Lance Robertson.
<26:40>
We haven’t pulled back on our efforts to protect older Americans during the COVID-19 crisis, despite the additional challenges. For instance, we support State longterm care ombudsmen who help older Americans who encounter issues in nursing homes and assisted living facilities resolving more than 138,000 issues just last year. During the pandemic ombudsmen have been adding virtual walkthroughs where nursing home staff walked through the room to room throughout the facility with a tablet, and allow residents the opportunity to meet virtually with their ombudsman.
<27:13>
Finally, I want to emphasize the overall success we’ve seen with increased access and lower costs for older Americans who need prescription drugs. According to data from Labor Department’s Bureau of labor statistics, prescription drug price inflation has essentially been flat since President Trump announced his drug pricing blueprint from June, 2018 to April, 2020, after averaging 4% growth per year for the previous five years. That’s a tribute to efforts across the administration, including record-breaking generic drug approvals in each of the last three years at FDA.
<27:48>
Lower prescription drug costs more support for older Americans in the community, better protection and nursing homes and assisted living facilities, all of these steps mean more healthy, prosperous years for older Americans to spend with their loved ones. And that’s what President Trump has promised older Americans, and that’s what he’s delivered. Thank you Mr. President.
<40:45>
Sure. So just to clarify your statement there, I don’t think was quite accurate in what the FDA’s action was. The FDA at the request of BARTA, which is an agency within HHS, withdrew an emergency use authorization for product that we had acquired into the national stockpile by donation from Bayer of chloroquine, that was manufactured in Pakistan and the EUA, the Emergency Use Authorization, was restricted for hospital use, inpatient hospital, use of the product. With the FDA finding that they don’t see enough data to support hospital-based use for those who were the most extreme cases of patients who’ve been hospitalized. They took that restriction off. They took the emergency use authorization off. At this point, hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are just like any other approved drug in the United States. They may be used in hospital. They may be used in outpatient.
<41:43>
They may be used at home. All subject to a doctor’s prescription. In fact, the FDA’s removal of the emergency use authorization takes away what had been a significant misunderstanding by many that had made people think that somehow it could only be used in a hospital setting. And we’ve tried to make that clear throughout. It’s a drug. It’s approved in the United States, has been for decades. If a doctor wishes to prescribe it working with the patient, they may prescribe it for any purpose that they wish to do so, and this actually removes a potential barrier to that.
<42:30>
Only in the hospital. It said the data in the hospital setting was not supported. We continue to study in outpatient settings as well as preventive. That data is not yet in.
<42:46>
No, that’s why the FDA acted. Was that they looked at the data and they removed the emergency use authorization for hospital setting use of the chloroquine, that was the Bayer product that had been donated from Pakistan.
<52:35>
At your direction, we continue to study, especially in earlier phase. So a lot of the data that has come out that was more negative was people who were quite ill in the hospital.
