<45:47>
Thank you very much. First, being here at the podium, I just want to especially talk about the people in blue behind me. These are the leaders of United States Public Health Service Commission Corps that I am incredibly privileged to lead. Over 3000 of them, America’s public health warriors. Whether it’s going into the Eastern Congo or Western Africa to fight Ebola, or if it’s staffing the nursing home in Kirkland, being on the World Health Organization team in China, or helping to facilitate community based testing, these are America’s public health heroes. They rarely, in fact I doubt that there’s ever been a time in American history where the leadership of the Public Health Service Commission Corps had the privilege of standing here on this stage behind the President and Vice President of the United States. I just wanted to commend that.
<46:36>
In terms of our capacities in our healthcare system, any pandemic like this runs the risk of exceeding our healthcare system capacity, and we must acknowledge that. That is precisely why the President and Vice President’s strategy is as Dr. Fauci has repeatedly spoke, to a delay and flatten the curve. The point of this is instead of a spike of the curve to delay and flatten that curve with the hope that you can keep the utilization of resources to be within the healthcare systems capacities. In addition to that, the entire point of our pandemic planning over the last 15 years has been to grant and put extra flex into our healthcare system. That’s why we have hospital preparedness grants that we fund every year through our preparedness program. That’s why we have in our strategic national stockpile, ventilators, field hospital units like mash units, if you’ll remember those, that have capacity for hundreds of individuals. In terms of supplies, obviously this is an unprecedented challenge. Unprecedented. And so we will work to increase the supplies of personal protective equipment, of ventilators, of field medical unit hospitals that we can deploy. We have tremendous supplies, but we want to acquire more. And that’s thanks to the bipartisan work of Congress funding the emergency supplemental that gives us the money to scale up production here and abroad. And we’re doing that.
<48:21>
We don’t disclose concrete numbers on particular items for national security purposes, but we have many ventilators, thousands and thousands of ventilators in our system. We have received so far only, I think, one request for just several ventilators. One of the things in terms of hospital capacity that’s going to be really important, this is a really good learning from China that we got from the World Health Organization team that went there. Is if we have communities where we have enough capacity where we can put people who are positive with COVID-19 and have them be exclusively reserved for individuals who are positive for COVID-19, this reduces our need to try to protect patients from other patients because they’re all positive already.
<49:07>
We need to protect our healthcare workers and our service workers in those facilities. This gives us reduced burden on personal protective equipment, but it also can give us greater capacity as we put field medical shelters up, as we consolidate into single facilities, as we don’t need individual rooms, negative airflow, isolation, et cetera. A vastly more efficient utilization of our healthcare system. This is all part of the planning work that we’ve done and are promulgating throughout our healthcare system. So that’s our strategy. We’re going to keep building that capacity though.
