<18:09>
So actually we have been educating healthcare providers really from day one back in January about the need to be on guard against respiratory syndrome. And then, when we had this case of the longterm care facility in Washington, we sent out special alerts to longterm care facilities to be very mindful about infection control, isolation, with these most vulnerable of our seniors, and other individuals who have comorbid conditions. And that’s really what we’ve been seeing around the world, is the prevalence of fatalities have been in the elderly and those who have other forms of medical fragility, comorbid conditions. And so really being on very high alert in our nursing home community is called for.
<19:01>
Well, I think it’s the same concern that we’ve all had, which is getting testing out there rapidly into the community so that we can be testing as many people as possible. As you know, our excellent teams down at the CDC developed the test really in record time within weeks of getting the genetic sequence back in January, and we approved the diagnostic at the FDA under an emergency use authorization in record time. We’ve been able to be testing at CDC throughout without any backlog and testing, our throughput has been great there. We’ve had 12 labs qualified to be able to do the testing. We did suffer a manufacturing issue on that test as it went out to the rest of the public health labs. We’ve gotten that issue solved in the last week, so that’s up and running in the public health labs. We also have gotten this test produced by this contractor to get it out, so we will, this week, have up to seventy five thousand tests shipping out there to public health labs, as well as available to hospitals for ordering.
<20:03>
And then something really important happened on Saturday morning. So one of the biggest issues around testing that people don’t understand, is during the Obama administration, the FDA for the first time, asserted control and regulatory jurisdiction over what are called lab developed tests. Before that, if a hospital or a lab like a quest diagnostics, a lab corp, or an academic medical center would develop a test on their own with reagents and tests, they could just do that if they were a certified clinical lab called a CLIA lab. But under the Obama administration, the FDA asserted jurisdiction and said, you have to come to us first, and get approval of that test before you can do it. On Saturday morning, Commissioner Hahn issued guidance saying under an emergency use authorization, we are permitting these labs, these public health labs, these hospital labs, commercial labs, to go ahead, get the test going, do your own test, make it available, and come to us for approval after the fact under emergency use authorization. That will make, this Commissioner Hahn has said, millions of tests per week available quite rapidly.
<21:31>
So what we said at the press conference just yesterday is very consistent with that, which is for the average American, in your daily life, the risk of getting the novel coronavirus is very low, but if you are around individuals who have the novel coronavirus, the risk obviously is higher and that’s why the efforts we’re taking with the state of Washington, and with Santa Clara County, and elsewhere in the country are around what’s called community mitigation. Which is to isolate individuals who have the disease, as well as to reduce social contact to bring the level of disease spreading down.
<22:40>
We’re working, as part of the emergency supplemental, we’ll work with Congress on programs to help hospitals as they care for the uninsured with novel coronavirus.
