<30:18>
Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to underscore a couple of things that I’ve said a few times to this group. You may recall that, just a week ago or so, I said the two pillars, the two elements of our capability to contain the infection and the surge of infections in this country rely on two things.
<30:37>
Keeping infections from coming from without in. We’ve been very successful in doing that with China and with Europe. Now we have the northern and southern border issues. There is a fundamental public health reason for doing that, because we cannot be preventing people from coming in from one area when they can actually go into the other. That’s an important reason. Understand that. There’s a public health reason for doing that.
<31:04>
The second thing I think is really important is what happened in New York today. Governor Cuomo mentioned about an hour ago some rather strong issues that have been addressed with his recommendations, not recommendations, essentially orders. We have a group of recommendations and guidelines that are applicable to the entire country. You know them. We’d been over them. Yet there are places, regions, states, cities in this country that are being stressed much, much more than the country as a whole. Clearly one of them was Washington, another one was California. Governor Newsom made some very important, difficult decisions. Today, Governor Cuomo did the same thing. I want to say I strongly support what he’s doing.
<31:52>
One thing, as a New Yorker myself, for those of you who haven’t figured out from my accent that I’m from New York, as a New Yorker, I know what New Yorkers can do. We’re tough. I was in New York City on September 11, 2001, and I know what the New Yorkers can do. Please cooperate with your governor. Cooperate with your mayor. It’s very important. Thank you.
<42:36>
No. The answer is no. The evidence that you’re talking about is anecdotal evidence. As the commissioner of FDA and the president mentioned yesterday, we’re trying to strike a balance between making something with a potential of an effect to the American people available at the same time that we do it under the auspices of a protocol that would give us information to determine if it’s truly safe and truly effective. But, the information that you’re referring to specifically is anecdotal. It was not done in a controlled clinical trial, so you really can’t make any definitive statement about it.
<44:02>
John, you’ve got to be careful when you say “fairly effective”. It was never done in a clinical trial, they compared it to anything. It was given to individuals, and felt that maybe it worked.
<44:13>
That’s the point. Whenever you do a clinical trial, you do standard of care versus standard of care plus the agent you’re evaluating. That’s the reason why we showed, back in Ebola, why particular interventions worked.
<49:24>
There really isn’t that much of a difference in many respects with what we’re saying. The president feels optimistic about something, his feeling about it. What I’m saying is that it might be effective. I’m not saying that it isn’t. It might be effective.
<49:37>
But, as a scientist, as we’re getting it out there, we need to do it in a way as, while we are making it available for people who might want the hope that it might work, you’re also collecting data that will ultimately show that it is truly effective and safe under the conditions of COVID-19. It really isn’t different. It’s just a question of how one feels about it.
<50:03>
How one feels about it.
<50:04>
Well, certainly as a drug, any drug, John has some toxicities. The decades of experience that we have with this drug indicate that the toxicities are rare and they are in many respects reversible. What we don’t know is when you put it in the context of another disease, whether it’s safe. Fundamentally I think it probably is going to be safe, but I like to prove things first. So it really is a question of not a lot of difference. It’s the hope that it will work versus proving that it will work. So I don’t see big differences here.
<01:11:27>
Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I think that’s a false equivalency to compare traffic accidents with, I mean that’s totally way out. That’s really a false equivalency. When you have something that is new and it’s emerging and you really can’t predict totally the impact it’s going to have and you take a look at what’s going on in China and you see what’s going on right now, right now in Italy and what’s happening in New York City. I don’t think with any moral conscience you could say, why don’t we just let it rip and happen and let X percent of the people die. I don’t understand that reasoning at all. <crosstalk 01:12:09>
<01:28:55>
The recommendations that are here applies to whether you’re in physical contact with someone who could be infected with symptoms versus asymptomatic? I don’t really think it changes anything. Certainly there is some degree of asymptomatic transmissibility. It’s still not quite clear exactly what that is. But when people focus on that, I think they take their eye off the real ball, which is the things you do will mitigate against getting infected no matter whether you’re near someone who is asymptomatic or not. It’s the same thing, physical separation and the care that’s outlined here is going to take care of both of those things. <crosstalk 01:29:34>
<01:31:13>
Thank you for the question. I’ve heard that before. I don’t see, I don’t connect the dots there. I don’t see how testing everybody in the country is going to help you to implement this. This should be implemented universally, at least at this level for everyone. The things we spoke about a while ago that you want to really ratchet it up like Governor Newson is doing in California, like governor Cuomo is doing in New York, or how you put an end to this outbreak. Testing is important. It would be nice to know and there are certain things you could do, but let’s not conflate testing with the action that we have to take. Whether or not you test, do this. I’m not putting down testing as an important issue, but people seem to link them so much that if you don’t have universal testing, you can’t respond to the outbreak. You really can.
<01:32:32>
The possibility of aerosol transmission always comes up when you have situations like that. It comes up with influenza, it came up with SARS in which there was a documented, one off episode of some aerosol transmission. Aerosol means that it can stay in the air for a period time because it’s in a droplet that’s very small and doesn’t go down. Is it possible and that there is aerosol transmission? Yeah, it certainly is, but clearly what we have seen in the situations where people have gotten infected from the areas that we have experience, China, South Korea, now Europe, most of it is in a situation where people are close enough to each other that a symptomatic person will have a real drop the transmission. So I’m not ruling out the possibility that it’s aerosol, but again, it’s not going to substantially change doing this. <crosstalk 01:33:30>
<01:33:37>
I get the same calls that many of you get, that someone goes into a place who has a symptom and wants to get a test and for one reason or other multiple logistic technical, what have you, they can’t get it. That is a reality that is happening now. Is it the same as it was a few weeks ago? Absolutely not. Because as the secretary and others have said right now that we have the private sector involved, the availability, not only just availability, but the implementation of the availability is getting better and better and better. Having said that, I understand and empathize with the people who rightfully are saying, I’m trying to get a test and I can’t.
<01:34:25>
Well, the answer is yes, John. We are not there yet because otherwise people would be never calling up saying they can’t get a test. <crosstalk 00:19:35>.
