<03:25>
Well, I do, of course, Arkansas supported a voter ID law.
<03:30>
But in terms of the election in November, there’s a lot of discussion about how we can make the vote accessible. If there is continued worry from a health standpoint and we want to be able to use no excuse absentee voting as a way to do it. But it’s still a person to person identification of the individual versus the mail in variety that is, you said can be manipulated.
<04:00>
So we’re looking at that, but we believe in the identification of the vote.
<23:25>
Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks for this opportunity to be here. I’ve enjoyed visiting with Dr. Birx, before. And Larry Kudlow about the economy, but also the health side of this. And I want to tell you, thank you for your leadership in the food production for our country. Arkansas has 60 meat processors here in the state of Arkansas. All of them are active, none of them are shut down. They’re producing because we know the country depends upon that production. But your support of that industry has been critical. And I also want to thank you for your leadership on the economy-
<24:02>
And I also want to thank you for your leadership on the economy. The message that you have, that we need to get back to work, get back to business is critical in terms of shaping the direction of our country. In Arkansas, we’re back to work today. All of our retail stores are open.
<24:20>
All of our retail establishments totally are open. Our gyms are open. Our barbers are open. Our restaurants are open. Now, sure, they have some restrictions, one third occupancy and things like that.
<24:32>
And we’re emphasizing the social distancing, but we’re at work. And the result of that is that we were projecting a 10% loss of our sales tax revenue year, over year, 10% reduction. We’re getting the numbers in and we’re going to be at 5%. It’s going to be about 5%.
<24:52>
And so obviously there’s a loss there we expected, but we’re beating all of those projections, including our payroll. And so we want to work and we really appreciate what you’ve done for small businesses in the payroll protection plan that our… We’ll be speaking about through the course of this meeting. And Lori <Trogden 00:25:16> is here. But also in terms of testing, just to give you a flavor of Arkansas, we have fewer than 100 hospitalized in Arkansas. We have right about 5,000 cases, all total cumulative.
<25:30>
The active cases are much less than that, but we’ve ramped up our testing because last month you all said, “You can have 90,000 test kits.”
<25:41>
Because of that, we were able to test this month, 2% of our population, which was our goal. We’re going to do 60,000 in May. And then we made a pledge that next month in June, we will test all of our nursing home residents and their workers. And so that’s our goal for June that will really help the safety of those in the nursing home, as well as the staff that’s there.
<26:05>
So while we’re growing the economy in Arkansas, it has to be a national effort because we’re not going to really boom in Arkansas until New York is strong again and until Kansas and all of our neighbors. And you mentioned the automobile industry. We’re in the supply chain. So we can’t really produce until they’re in operation. But we’ve got a lot of exciting things happening in the state, but it couldn’t have been done without the support and partnership that we have with your federal agencies that have been very responsive and given us what we needed.
<30:29>
Well, I do. Of course, Arkansas supported a voter ID law.
<30:33>
But in terms of the election in November, there’s a lot of discussion about how we can make the vote accessible if there is continued worry from a health standpoint. And we want to be able to use no excuse absentee voting as a way to do it. But it’s still a person to person identification of the individual-
<30:58>
Versus the mail in variety, that as you said, can be manipulated. So we’re looking at that, but we believe in the identification of the voter.
