<28:09>
All right. Well, thank you Mr. President, for all the work you’ve been doing to get our country back on track, and America owes a lot to our seniors. They’re the ones who really built this country up, they’re the ones who’ve made this nation a destination for people from around the world, and they are wonderful fountains of knowledge that live among us. And I’m proud to be a part of an administration that really values our elderly citizens.
<28:42>
Mr. President, you promised not to forget men and women of our nation, to put special emphasis on them, and that’s been the case with a lot of the elderly over the course of time. And at HUD, our housing choice voucher program, provides rental subsidies for 4.7 million families, low income families, including elderly and disabled who make up more than 50% of the voucher holders. The Cares Act has provided an additional $3 billion for this program so that we can assure any senior who needs help, that they will receive assistance.
<29:26>
Our section 202 Program, another area that prioritizes the elderly and housing, providing low income elders with options, which allow them to continue to live independently, and supportive services such as cooking, cleaning, transportation, all of these things we’re making sure to provide quality of life for these individuals. Cares Act provided $50 million and additional funding for this program to cover a lot of the expenses that were unforeseen before the COVID-19 crisis hit us.
<30:10>
Some of HUD’s other programs include Home Equity Conversion Mortgage Program, which over the last three years has undergone substantial improvements, particularly under the guidance of our now Deputy Secretary Bryant Montgomery, and this really allows seniors to age in place, and utilize their equity that they’ve accumulated over the years. And since its inception, FHA has insured more than a million reverse mortgages.
<30:43>
Our Public Housing Authorities assist our low income Americans, including seniors, in finding quality affordable housing. And HUD also has a portfolio of hospitals that we ensure, that obviously, provide significant services to seniors across the country. Those are just a few of the efforts that we’ve taken to help those who’ve given so much over the years to this nation, as a compassionate society, we have an obligation to take care of the most vulnerable citizens. And they’re also very valuable citizens. Without them this nation would not be where it is today, and I’m proud to work alongside you, Mr. President, and the other sitting here and this whole administration, which really does value our senior citizens. And we’re grateful for the wisdom that our seniors share with us every day.
