<01:15:03>
… with the challenge of keeping students safe and healthy while also building capacity for remote learning. It’s an important moment to realize that learning can and does happen anywhere and everywhere. I think of the Texas dad who started a daily webinar interviewing friends and acquaintances in wildly different careers and helping students understand what it takes to work in that chosen career, or the history teacher in Virginia who connects with his students through a livestream every morning. I think of the art teacher in Tennessee who’s broadcasting her lessons over social media, or of Second Lady Karen Pence, who prepares packages of art materials and projects for her students to pick up with their school lunches, or the principal in Alabama who’s going online daily, giving morning announcements, leading the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence. I think of the many schools that have distributed laptops and tablets to students who don’t have them so they can continue learning over video conference and the ones that just don’t have that option currently, like the remote Colorado towns.
<01:16:03>
Joy Hoffmeister, the school chief in Oklahoma, may have put this best. She told me, “School isn’t a building. It’s students, teachers, and families working together to advance learning.” She’s right, and that’s our shared mission.
<01:16:19>
Let me also touch very briefly on how we’re supporting students pursuing higher education. At the beginning of this outbreak, we immediately gave institutions of higher education regulatory flexibility so learning could go online, and it did. In many cases, it was a seamless transition, and learning continues. We’re continuing to cut federal bureaucracy and let schools rise to meet this challenge. We’ve vastly improved distance learning policies, which we’re working quickly to enact for traditional higher education.
<01:16:52>
Shorter-term programs, and apprenticeships also need to grow and thrive, and as the President has so effectively championed, workers need these options as they look to come back stronger than ever from these momentary setbacks.
<01:17:05>
The President promised to defeat this invisible enemy and keep our economy strong. He took immediate action and provided student loan relief to tens of millions of borrowers. We set all federally held student loans to 0% interest rates and deferred payments for 60 days. Now with the CARES Act that he signed just earlier today, Mr. President, those actions will extend to six months.
<01:17:32>
We hope these actions and others we’ve taken for those who’ve become delinquent on payments or have had other issues with their student loan payments will help alleviate the financial burden and anxiety students and their families are feeling during these tough times. These are tough times, but we the people are tougher.
<01:17:52>
So in closing, let me offer just a few words of encouragement. To our students, your educations can and should continue. Learning can happen anywhere, and we will help make sure it does. We believe in you. To our teachers, we will support you and help you. You are doing great work. Keep it up.
<01:18:16>
To every parent and family, we know these are challenging times, but it’s in the face of great challenges that Americans have always risen to the occasion and embraced greatness, and I know we’ll do that once again. I thank, again, the President and the Vice President for their leadership on behalf of America’s students and on behalf of all of us. Now we’ll turn to my friend Secretary Sonny Perdue to share more on how we’re working together to help support student nutrition.
