<23:27>
Thank you, Mr. vice president. Thank you, Mr. president, for this opportunity to do this today. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Bill Bryan and I lead the science and technology directorate at the US Department of Homeland Security. Over the last several months, we’ve intensified the department’s R and D efforts to identify and deliver information that informs our response to COVID-19. S and T is working to identify, develop, deploy and deploy the tools and information to support our response to this crisis. As part of our efforts, we’re leveraging the capabilities of S and T’s National Biodefense Analysis and Counter Measure Center to study the biology of the COVID-19 virus. This center is a high biocontainment laboratory located in Frederick, Maryland. It was established in the early 2000’s in response to the amerithrax attacks and where we study, characterize, analyze and develop countermeasures for biological threats to the homeland.
<24:22>
We work closely with the CDC, FDA, HHS, and also our Department of Defense colleagues and many others. Yesterday, I shared the emerging results of our work that we’re doing now with the coronavirus task force and today I would like to share a certain trends that we believe are important. If I may have the first slide please. And while that’s coming up, our most striking observation to date is the powerful effect that solar light appears to have on killing the virus, both surfaces and in the air. We’ve seen a similar effect with both temperature and humidity as well, where increasing the temperature and humidity or both is generally less favorable to the virus. So, let me illustrate with this first slide. If you look to the right, you’ll see that term half-life with a bunch of timestamps on there. First, let me tell you what a half-life is. We don’t measure the virus as far as how long will it live on a surface. We have to measure the decay of the virus in terms of its half-life because we don’t know certain-
<25:27>
… That has a bearing on how long the virus is going to be alive and active. So, we measure it in half-life because half-life doesn’t change. So, if you look at an 18 hour half-life, what you’re basically saying is that every 18 hours the life of the virus is cut in half. So, if you start with 1000 particles of the virus, in 18 hours you’re down to 500, and 18 hours after that you’re down to 250 and so on and so forth. That’s important as I explain the rest of the chart. If you look at the first three lines, when you see the word surface, we’re talking about non porous surfaces. Door handles, stainless steel, and if you look at as the temperature increases as the humidity increases with no sun involved, you can see how drastically the half-life goes down on that virus.
<26:09>
So, the virus is dying at a much more rapid pace just from exposure to higher temperatures and just from exposure to humidity. If you look at the fourth line, you inject the sunlight into that, you inject UV rays into that, the same effects on line two as 70 to 75 degrees with 80% humidity on the surface and look at line four but now you inject the sun, the half-life goes from six hours to two minutes. That’s how much of an impact UV rays has on the virus. The last two lines are aerosols, what does it do in the air? We have a very unique capability, I was discussing this with the president prior to coming out, he wanted me to convey it to you on how we do this. I believe we’re the only lab in the country that has this capability, but if you can imagine a five gallon Home Depot bucket, we’re able to take a particle, and this was design developed and designed by our folks at the NBAC. We’re able to take a particle of a virus and suspend it in the air inside of this drum and hit it with various temperatures, various humidity levels, multiple different kinds of environmental conditions to include sunlight. And we’re able to measure the decay of that virus while it’s suspended in the air. This is how we do our aerosol testing.
<27:22>
We worked with John Hopkins’ applied physics lab and we actually developed a larger drum to actually do more testing and it’s four times the size of that. So, this is the capability that we bring to this effort. So, in summary, within the conditions we’ve tested today, the virus in droplets of saliva survives best in indoors and dry conditions. The virus does not survive as well in droplets of saliva, and that’s important because a lot of testing being done is not necessarily being done, number one, with the COVID-19 virus and number two, in saliva or respiratory fluids. And thirdly, the virus dies the quickest in the presence of direct sunlight under these conditions. And when you look at that chart, look at the aerosol as you breathe it, you put it in a room, 70 to 75 degrees, 20% humidity, low humidity. Half-life is about an hour, but you get outside and it cuts down to a minute and a half. Very significant difference when it gets hit with UV rays. Mr. president, while there are many unknown links in the COVID-19 transmission chain, we believe these trends can support practical decision making to lower the risks associated with the virus. If I could have my next slide and while that comes up, you’ll see a number of some practical applications.
<28:34>
For example, increasing the temperature and humidity of potentially contaminated indoor spaces appears to reduce the stability of the virus, and extra care may be warranted for dry environments that do not have exposure to solar light. We’re also testing disinfectants readily available. We’ve tested bleach, we’ve tested isopropyl alcohol on the virus specifically in saliva or in respiratory fluids and I can tell you that bleach will kill the virus in five minutes. Isopropyl alcohol will kill the virus in 30 seconds and that’s with no manipulation, no rubbing. Just bring it on and leaving it go. You rub it and it goes away even faster. We’re also looking at other disinfectants, specifically looking at the COVID-19 virus in saliva. This is not the end of our work. As we continue to characterize this virus and integrate our findings into practical applications to mitigate exposure and transmission. I would like to thank the president, thank the vice president for their ongoing support and leadership to the department and for their work in addressing this pandemic. I would also like to thank the scientists not only in S and T and the NBAC, but to the larger scientific and R and D community. Thank you very much.
<32:51>
We’re continuing with that. For example, on the aerosol side, you notice the figures were 20% humidity. We’re looking at higher humidity levels. We would expect that would even have a greater impact on the virus. We’re looking at other types of disinfectants and so, as a scientific community, we are continuing to study the virus to understand its characteristics.
<33:19>
Let me explain. If you look at the coronavirus as a chain with many links, what we’ve done through our study is we’ve identified some of the weak links in that chain that the transmission of the virus depends upon. We identified that heat and humidity is a weakness in that chain. We’ve identified that sunlight, solar light, UV rays is a weakness in that chain. That doesn’t take away the other activities, the guidance from the white house, the guidance from the CDC and others on the actions and steps that people need to take to protect themselves. This is just another tool in our tool belt, right? Another weapon in the fight that we can add to it and in the summer we know that summer light conditions are going to create an environment where the transmission can be decreased and that’s an opportunity for us to get ahead.
<34:16>
No, I’m here to talk about the finds that we had in the study. We don’t do that within that lab at our labs.
<34:49>
It would be irresponsible for us to say that we feel that the summer is just going to totally kill the virus and then if it’s a free for all and that people ignore those guidance, that is not the case. We have an opportunity though to get ahead with what we know now and factor that into the decision makings for what opens and what doesn’t.
<35:24>
Yes, Mr. president, when it’s exposed to UV rays, take a playground equipment for example, the UV ray’s hitting a piece of playground equipment will kill the virus when it hits on the playground equipment. But underneath where the sun does not get, if someone touched that and had it on their hands, it could still be there, right? It has to be in direct light of the UV rays.
<35:47>
And it’s exposed to the sun, it’ll-
<35:56>
I don’t want to say it will at the same rate because it’s a non-porous surface, but what we do know is-
<36:03>
Same rate because it’s a non-porous surface, but we do know, what we do know is that we looked at the worst case scenario, and the virus lives longer on non-porous surfaces. So porous surfaces, it doesn’t live quite as long, so in theory what you said is correct.
<36:16>
Yes, Mr. President. <crosstalk 00:36:18>
<36:31>
I would leave that up to the governors. This factors into their decision process. As I mentioned, with knowing this knowledge and having this knowledge as we continue to study and further know what the virus does and how it reacts, it could impact the way a governor will look at what he opens in a state, how he opens it, and what environments these things are opened up. But I’d leave that up to the governors to make that decision. <crosstalk 00:36:52>
<37:09>
I would not go contrary to the guidelines that had been issued right now. I think though to tell you that if I’m having an event with my family, I’m doing it in the driveway or in the backyard, not inside the house.
<37:34>
We first were able to receive the virus back in February is when we started testing, and it is a science based approach. Science is a process and the doctor can attest to that. It doesn’t necessarily line up with goals and targets and other things. It is what it is. But we are now starting to get results and every week or two weeks, we’re starting to find out something new and something different. And in talking to the task force and the Vice President, he’s already asked us to come to him every time we come up with some new discoveries that we could share to the public.
<38:17>
We have. We do have a very good partnership with a lot of our allies. We work closely with them on this particular topic. We actually authored a document called The Master Questions List. If you go to DHSS and T’s website, we’ve already had about 17,000 hits on this document. It actually outlines what all the countries in the world are doing to fill the certain gaps of knowledge that don’t exist within the virus, and what we do know, and that is really what targets and drives the science community to say, “All right, what don’t we know now so we don’t duplicate what other people have done?” So we’ve championed that document. It’s well referenced and I would encourage you to look at that.
