(24:13)
I also want to add my prayers and sympathy for those that are sick and obviously our citizens that unfortunately died last night. Currently as said, there’s 22 cases in the United States and these initial cases were really leaked linked to travel to China and their context. Recently as was stated, we’ve confirmed new cases with no link to travel history or contacts and health departments under the leadership of the states and local health department supported by CDC are aggressively evaluating these cases in California, Oregon and Washington. As we said, we should anticipate to see additional cases and clusters in the days ahead and we will continue to aggressively evaluate them by the state and local and territorial tribal health departments in conjunction with CDC by embracing early case recognition, isolation, contact tracing and begin to do that to limit the further spread. I want to also add my emphasis to what was said that as we stand here today, the risk of the American public remains low. As was said, we should anticipate more cases, but again, the current risks, to the American public remains low.
(28:39)
Sure, Mr. President. Thank you. I think it’s really important that, as I said, the risk at this time is low. The American public needs to go on with their normal lives. Okay? Now we’re continuing to aggressively investigate these new community links. We’re going to continue to be transparent in relating that to the American public, but at this stage, again, the risk is low. We need to go on with our normal lives.
(36:37)
Whoops. Yeah, the case again, this is why we’re talking about the community cases with no link to travel. So the investigation at this time shows no evidence of link to travel or a known contact.
(37:01)
So I just want to emphasize again, that the Americans, independent of where they live in this nation are at low risk. All right? And we’re going to continue to evaluate aggressively these on link cases as we see them. And as we learn, we’ll obviously communicate that.
(52:25)
I just want to echo again, that the risk is low.
(52:30)
The risk is low. I encourage Americans to go about their life. That includes travel to California, Oregon, and state of Washington. And we will continue to have aggressive public health response with our state and local territorial health departments to get a better understanding of these community cases that we’ve now begun to see.
