<19:16>
Thank you, Admiral. I want to talk through a little bit, specifically the work that we’ve been doing with the states. So as the Admiral mentioned, over the past few weeks, we’ve been working with each state to set a target for their testing goal for May. Over the series of a couple of different calls, we’ve aligned on what those goals are, and as the Admiral mentioned and the President mentioned, they add up to over 12.9 million tests in the month of May.
<19:39>
For every state, this is greater than 2% of their population in the entire state being tested in May, and for many states, it’s a much higher number than that. When you compare this, as the President mentioned, to South Korea, South Korea is actually below that 2%, not for a month, but for their total tests to date since the start of the year. And so our states have come together to set really ambitious goals that we’re excited to support them in meeting.
<20:02>
If you go to the next slide, as I talked about last time in the press briefing, there are really three parts to making sure that a test can happen. The first part is the specimen collection supplies, the second part is the machines, and the third part are the lab supplies that the machines need to run. And what we’ve been working to do is to make sure that each state has all three of those parts to be able to conduct a number of tests.
<20:24>
The first part is the specimen collection supplies. The commercial market today is providing a large number of these supplies already to states and already to hospitals, but we wanted to ensure that every state had more than what they needed to be able to conduct the number of tests they’re aiming in May. So what we’ve done is we’ve purchased enough tests to support the state testing goals for May and June.
<20:46>
So we will be sending more than 12.9 million swabs and over 10 million media to the states over the course of May and a similar or greater number over the course of June. In addition, we have several million in reserve. So if states are able to exceed their goal in the third and fourth week of May, we can provide them even more swabs and transport media. And again, this is in addition to what’s already available in the commercial market.
<21:08>
If you go to the next slide, there are large numbers, it’s been talked about many times, a large number of testing machines across the country, over 5,000 different machines that can conduct these tests. The key part is making sure that the machines and that the labs have enough supplies to run the machines. There will be in the month of May commercially produced over 25 million test kits, which is either the PCR and extraction kits or the cartridges to be able to support states in their testing effort.
<21:39>
And what we’ve been working to do with each state is understand their total goal, and each of the manufacturers has been a great partner with us and told us how many tests they’re shipping to each lab in each state over the course of May. And what we know is that in the aggregate, the number of test kits the state is getting is greater than their testing goal for month of May.
<21:58>
In addition to what the states have already purchased, there’s over 7 million additional tests that remain unpurchased, the majority of those from Thermo Fisher, which is the most common machine in the country. So we feel very confident the states will not only have the specimen collection supplies and the machines, but also the extraction kits and the reagents they need to be able to hit or potentially exceed their testing goals.
<22:19>
And if you go to the last slide, the last piece of the puzzle is making sure that Americans have access to these tests. Healthcare providers, hospitals, primary care physicians are already providing these tests to date. And we, for the past six or seven weeks have been partnered with the retailers who have massively been ramping up their effort.
<22:36>
Today they’re over 240 retail sites. We’ve been working with the retailers to make sure that they’re specifically targeting low-income and other vulnerable communities across the country, and we’re talking with them about potentially opening more than another thousand additional sites over the next month or two.
<22:52>
So we hope that we’ve put together the right pieces of the puzzle, having access points for patients and Americans across the country, having the specimen collection supplies needed to take the test, having the machines, and then also having the lab testing supplies with the machines. So thank you very much.
<57:28>
And to make sure I understand the White House’s position, are you saying that right now, you feel there is enough testing, adequate testing across the United States, or do you feel that it needs to be ramped up? And by how much, if so, does it need to be ramped up?
<58:49>
And let me just add a little bit to that because most days I don’t come to the White House to work, I either go to FEMA or I go to HHS. And let me just talk you through what the protocols are there, because I would never get tested if I wasn’t coming to the White House. So every day when we come in, we get our temperature taken and we get asked questions about if we have symptoms, if you don’t, then you enter the workplace. And then there’s hand sanitizer all over the place. In rooms that are made for conference rooms, they put pieces of paper that say, don’t sit, in essentially every other, every third seat to separate people. And so there’s a lot of precautions that we’re taking in the federal government that are separate from testing. And those are the precautions that the agencies that Admiral Giroir and I are working at every day are using to let us continue working.
