<36:09>
Well, thank you, Mr. President. It’s an honor of a lifetime to be here and serving in this way. I’ve been working under Dr. Birx’s and Admiral Giroir’s leadership over the past several weeks to help increase the supply of testing across the United States.
<36:22>
As you all know, there’s really three parts that you need to make the test work. First, you need the machine, which has Dr. Birx will share more and the president spoke to. We have a very, very large number of those across the United States. It’s about making sure that we’re taking advantage of them. The second part of the testing is making sure that we have the collection supplies to actually be able to collect the specimen and I’ll talk a little bit more about that. Then the third part is making sure that you have the materials you need to support the machine to ensure that you can actually process the test once it gets to the lab.
<36:54>
I’ll let Dr. Birx talk more about the machines here in a second, but as you’ll see across the United States, we have a tremendous number. They range in variety, so we have some very small machines that do point-of-care testing. They may do, say, 50 to a 100 tests a day. We also have other very large machines. They can do several thousand, process several thousand tests a day.
<37:15>
On the collection supply piece, I’ll talk through a couple of different kinds of collection that that can be done. For the nucleic acid test, which are the tests that are currently being done today, you generally need a swab of the nose. To do that, you need the swab, you need the collection tube and you also need the transport media that it can be transported in. We have a large, very large number of swabs already in the country, but we have secured an additional 30 million in production that we’ll be ramping up over the next several weeks.
<37:46>
One company, located in the Northeast, we’re going to be using Title III of the DPA to help them build four new production lines. They are currently the largest swab producer in the country and this will help them ramp up their production tremendously to over 20 million additional swabs a month. A second company located in Ohio is currently the largest Q-tip maker in the country. We’re helping them convert their line from making Q-tips into making swabs. They are actually ramping up production starting this week of swabs and we’ll be ramping up to over 10 million per month. In total, that’s over 30 million new swabs that will be coming just over the next handful of weeks.
<38:25>
The second piece is on the collection tubes. The collection tubes, we’ve been partnering with Oak Ridge National Lab, a Department of Energy lab based in Tennessee. They have very unique and sophisticated injection molding manufacturing capability and they are in the process of ramping that up to create collection tubes and they will be ramping up to over 40 million collection tubes a month here over the next several weeks.
<38:50>
In addition to the swabs, we believe that as testing progresses there’ll be other types of testing like serological testing that will occur and those samples have to be collected in different ways. Many times some of those tests will require a finger prick. So in addition, we secured over 17 million lancets, which is what you use for the finger prick, so that we have those available as well as 17 million alcohol swabs, which is what you need to clean the finger before you do the finger prick.
<39:17>
In addition, although folks are not talking about this much yet, we also believe that businesses across the country may want thermometers to test folks as they come into the office, and so we’ve secured over 650,000 infrared thermometers that states and businesses will be able to access to be able to test folks as they come into work. I think we’ve made tremendous progress on the collection side.
<39:39>
In addition to the collection side, we’ve been very focused on ensuring that the labs have what they need. To process a specimen in a lab, you really need two things. You need something called an extraction kit and you needs something called a PCR test. In order to be able to fully process a test, you need both of these things. Sometimes these things come together and sometimes they come separate. For some of our point-of-care tests, including the Abbott and <Sefia 00:40:05> tests, they come together. They are ramping up production rapidly to over 3 million of those tests per month and these are tests that did not exist even a month ago.
<40:15>
The second piece is on some of these large machines. They also sell complex cartridges that come together. One of the big manufacturers that has already ramped up production from about 1.6 million a month to more than twice that already and that’s already occurred. In addition to when they come together, they also sometimes come separate and we see significant ramping up of production there from our manufacturers through our public private partnerships. We’re seeing both several million more over the next few weeks of both the RNA extraction kit as well as the PCR test kit. So with that, thank you.
<01:05:02>
So today we were on site…Or that we had folks on site with that company, finishing out what their capital projections will be in order to be able to ramp up these additional four lines that I spoke about. That company will then turn in a white paper to the DOD that will then help move the process forward, but it’s actively in process.
