<40:33>
Well, thank you, Mr. President, and I just think this is a fascinating conversation because it really shows how each industry is unique. And as an economy, we need to meet the needs of every industry and put the economy together. Not surprisingly, when you’re in a business and you’re in a sector that creates the tools that people can use to work from home, it’s not difficult to have your own employees work from home and that’s what we’ve been doing. But I think our mission in this first phase has really been much broader than that. It’s been twofold. One is, to provide the data resources and the technology to support the public health needs of the country, from public health agencies, to hospitals, to the researchers, as you mentioned, who are on the quest for a vaccine and therapeutics and the like. And I think more broadly, it is meant to work with, frankly, many of these companies around this table to sustain the economy these past few months, so that employees could work from home, so students could study from home, so that the government could operate from home when that was needed. Now, it’s all about phase two and I think you put it well. It’s all about both protecting public health and reopening the economy. And here we see in some ways, something that may look more like a dial than a switch as we go through a series of phases, we think we’ll all likely continue to see different industries with different needs. We do see technology playing some new and important role.
<42:03>
We do see technology playing some new and important roles. And on this slide, which you’d have to stand within three feet of to read, you’ll see the nine different areas where we see different public health needs, but there’s three I want to call out because I think they’re especially important for the private sector. The first is the ability to use technology, to work with people, to detect the disease. I thought the reference to a health declaration was a really good one. It makes sense that the airport, many employers are going to want that on some kind of self attestation basis for their employees. It doesn’t make sense to do it on a piece of paper. We were developing an app for our employees. We realized, well, everybody’s employees need this, so we’re now partnering with United Health Group so it can be made available to everybody.
<42:50>
The second layer that I think is really important for the private sector is the tracing capability. And we’re seeing both companies like Microsoft and others work to create tracing technology that can be used by individuals, that can be deployed by employers or by public health agencies. And then the last is notification, exposure notification that can be done by individuals with public health officers. I think the key to all of this is captured in the next slide. We want people to be comfortable using this technology. We need to protect people’s privacy so that they know that they’re not putting their personal information at risk when they use technology in this new way. So we’re very committed to doing that. In closing, I would say when you step back from this, this is also the right time to close the broadband gap, which you’re addressing through stimulus efforts-
<43:45>
And I think there are more. It’s the right time to invest in more skilling because we are going to see more jobs demand more digital skills than we did six months ago. And it’s the right time to maintain the focus as you have set on testing. You noted the progress, we’ve noticed the progress, we appreciate the progress. But I think even more than the progress is frankly, the high ambition level the administration has set to sustain that progress because I think by fall, if we want students to return to college campuses, if we want more employees to feel safe in the workplace, we’re going to see more private sector institutions wanting the ability to test people, even when they’re asymptomatic. And so that progress, I think will be another one of the fundamental ingredients that we’ll need. So, thank you.
