<25:20>
Hi, Mr. President, I’m Brian Goldner with Hasbro, and thank you for your leadership and for working closely with the private sector to reopen the American economy. You may know that Hasbro is a nearly 100 year old Rhode Island based play and entertainment company with brands like Monopoly, Transformers, Play-Doh, Peppa pig, and Nerf. It’s really an honor to be here today. It’s also an incredible honor to see how our brands are resonating with consumers, more people getting together and connecting and with games and brands like Play-Doh as they spend time together. We were talking as we were coming together today, just how people are making new connections. We’re very excited about that. Then the reopening of the economy. I also have to thank you for the partnership that we’ve had over time with director Kudlow, and it’s great to get the support that we’ve seen from Secretary Mnuchin as well.
<26:19>
From health screenings to interactive handbooks, safe return to the office, safe social distancing, staggering shifts in our warehouses and factory floors, we are safely reopening US businesses. If we could go to the next slide. We’ve worked closely with Governors in our region, the Rhode Island Governor, Raimondo, and the Massachusetts Governor, Baker, to design safe reopening guidelines. I’m especially proud of our Hasbro safety folks and operations. We’ve set a standard in our factories and warehouse operations across the country for consumer goods manufacturers. In fact, we’re training other consumer goods manufacturers to help them open safely in the US from Massachusetts to Texas.
<27:02>
So again, I’m very pleased to be here. I’m very proud of our employees. They’re all very excited about getting back to work, and we’ve been working all along. As our factories closed down during certain times over the last few months, our teams came together to make face shields in our factories, 50,000 a week-
<27:23>
To give to healthcare workers, and we’ve made good use of those factories. We’re now happy to see them back up and running. So thank you again and thank you for leadership. Thank you.
