<05:18>
My story is we were on the Diamond Princess or ground zero and I didn’t get the virus there, although I tested positive there, didn’t learn about it until later. We were flown back thanks to you. We were flown back by the state department to first-
<05:46>
We were stuck there. It was like we were on a floating Petri dish. We were watching the bodies get off daily, off into ambulances taken out by one. A total of 750 of us over time were taken out. We were more than double the amount of outbreaks if you added everyone in the world at the time other than China, and China wasn’t giving us any information. If you added all that up, we doubled the amount of people who had the virus.
<06:21>
11 people have died from the Diamond Princess. On the plane ride back on the 747 military plane, I woke up with a high fever over 103. They put me in a quarantine area next to a about eight other people. We landed in Sacramento at Travis Air Force base and then they saw me and saw I had a precondition of Guillain-Barré syndrome, 67 years old.
<06:50>
I had a precondition, so they flew me. They had three of us in quarantine and then my wife and two others who didn’t have the virus and my wife never got the virus. She should be the one studied right now. I was flown to-
<07:36>
I don’t think she had it.
<07:39>
Believe me. I know that.
<07:43>
Not only that. We had two friends, so we were going back and forth in each of our cabins, they got exposed, they got the virus. We were stuck on-
<07:53>
They did great. They came out great. We were stuck on a bus for six and a half hours with people with the virus. On the plane, people had the virus. She sat next to a husband of a couple who got married on the Diamond Princess. They were in their forties. The wife was next to me in the special quarantined area on the plane. The husband was next to her coughing away. When we ended up at-
<08:47>
No, that was-
<09:14>
In Omaha. Yeah, five weeks because I was in the bio containment area in Omaha and then to a lower level of containment.
<09:24>
Just the first day on the plane I had the 103 fever. By the time I got to Omaha, I was okay. I still had symptoms. I still had a cough that stayed with me for about two and a half weeks. I had shortness of breath for about four or five days.
<09:42>
It was not noticeable when I was lying in bed, but if I got up and walked around the room, if I walked around the room and talked on the phone at the same time trying to multitask, that was impossible to do.
