<20:08>
Right behind you. Let me start off by thanking the President and the Vice President for their continued leadership and commitment for protecting the American people during this crisis. Early on, the President again took unprecedented actions to restrict travel from areas affected with the coronavirus. And to date, DHS has screened over 200,000 individuals coming back from those affected countries. This has been an immense undertaking, but one that the men and women of DHS have successfully accomplished.
<20:37>
Today’s announcement is yet another example of the extraordinary steps the administration has taken to ensure the safety of the American public. Before I comment on the CDC order that I’m sure Secretary Azar will later elaborate on, let me first address the progress as Secretary Pompeo and others have made with our Canadian and Mexican partners regarding cross border travel. As we continue to evaluate common sense measures that reduce risk and prevent further spread, it only makes sense that we have looked at the measures that our neighbors to the North and South are undertaking.
<21:08>
And so we’ve been working closely with those partners since the earliest days of this virus and the outbreak. And again, as the President said earlier this week, and Secretary Pompeo, we’ve reached an agreement with both Canada and Mexico to limit non-essential travel across our land borders. Let me be clear that neither of these agreements with Canada or Mexico applies to lawful trade or commerce. Essential commercial activities will not be impacted.
<21:36>
We will continue to maintain a strong and secure economic supply chain across our borders. A few examples of essential travel include, but certainly are not limited to, individuals traveling for medical purposes, to attend educational institutions, for emergency response, public health services and individuals engaged in lawful cross border trade. As the Secretary said, the agreements with both Canada and Mexico will go into effect on Saturday, March 21st. Furthermore, we’re also working collaboratively with Canada and Mexico to take decisive joint action regarding individuals seeking entry between our ports of entry.
<22:14>
The CDC order directs the department to suspend the introduction of all individuals seeking to enter the US without proper travel documentation. That’s for both the Northern and Southern border. The CDC Director has determined that the introduction and spread of the coronavirus and the departments border patrol stations and detention facilities presents a serious danger to migrants, our frontline agents, and officers and the American people. So it’s important to note that the department currently apprehends foreign nationals from over 120 different countries around the world. The vast majority of those having coronavirus cases.
<22:52>
Many of these individuals arrive with little or no identity travel or medical documentation making public health risk determinations all but impossible. It’s also important to note that the outbreak on our Southern border would likely increase the strain on health systems in our border communities, taking away important and life saving resources from American citizens. Tonight, again at midnight, we will execute the CDC order by immediately returning individuals arriving without documentation to Canada, Mexico, as well as a number of other countries without delay.
<23:25>
So again, CVP is positioned to execute these measures as we continue to keep our borders secure and safe. Before I conclude, let me just a wrap up by thanking the brave men and women of DHS, specifically CVP, and across the government for the work that they do day in and day out to keep the American people safe from the coronavirus. The department has a number of frontline officers that have tested positive, as well as others who are self quarantining. And I am doing everything that I can to protect these patriots as they continue to defend our Homeland during this crisis. Thank you.
<59:45>
Thank you, as we implement the CDC’s order again, we’re going to take a number of individuals that crossed the border illegally and repatriate them or remove them quickly back to Mexico, back to the Northern triangle and back to any other countries. So we’re going to do that in a rapid fashion. We’ll continue to work with Mexico to make sure the Mexican nationals go back as well as other populations.
<01:00:13>
So we’re doing all of the above. We’re going to be sending individuals back to Mexico, individuals back to the Northern triangle countries, Cuba, Haiti, we again 122 different nations that we see nationalities that come across that border. We’ll be sending them back individually to their countries, but also with working with Mexico to send additional populations back there as well.
<01:13:45>
Again, it’s a public health crisis, so what we’re trying to do is limit the amount of contact that we have with these individuals, not putting them in border patrol facilities, ICE detention facilities in the like. So it’s going to be very rapid. We’re going to obviously take them into custody and then send them back to a port of entry or other means. So it will be very quickly, it won’t be the six or seven or 10 days that we currently have. It’ll be a much more rapid.
<01:14:12>
That’s correct. <crosstalk 00:24:17>.
