<12:56>
Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I also want to make sure that we think Treasury and the SBA for all the work that they’ve done tirelessly over the last couple of weeks in moving the DPP program through the administration.
<13:16>
I’d like to take the opportunity today in sharing with you things. We’ve already provided substantial amounts of credit liquidity to our customers to help them weather these times which we all know were not predicted and cause a great deal of uncertainty. So as we think about all that we can do, we look across all our businesses and ask that question every single day. In March alone we extended nearly $70 billion to our customers to help support them in terms of getting through this environment. So far we’ve deferred more than 790,000 payments representing over $2 billion to those who requested it because they’ve been impacted by this virus in some way.
<14:04>
And we’ve provided over 750,000 fee waivers and all of these numbers will continue to grow as we take calls from our customers. And we’re doing everything we can to make sure that they understand that we’re here to support them. We also are proud to participate in PPP in providing all the support that we can. As you know, the need expressed by our customers has been huge. We specifically are focusing on two segments. We’re focusing on not-for-profits and small businesses with less than 15 employees. Small businesses with less than 15 employees represent approximately 17 million of the small businesses in the U.S. As we all know, they’ve been particularly hard hit and very often have fewer resources to help manage this environment.
<14:53>
We’ve also made the decision that we would not be keeping the fees on the program. We will be contributing all of the fees received to not-for-profits. That’s for small businesses. It’s just another thing that we think can do to help the small business community out there. And so beyond that we stand ready to continue serve our customers at our branch, by phone, and digitally. As my friends have said, stand ready on the additional programs that are coming down the line so that we’re ready to support our consumers, small businesses and middle market companies as well in the programs that you’ve outlined and will continue to help in a way that we can.
