<03:41>
All right. Hi, I’m Chris Nassetta. I am CEO of Hilton, and we have 6,000 hotels around the world, about 4,500 hotels in the great United States of America. We employ globally about 450,000 people, about 260,000 people here in America. Mr President, on behalf of everybody, I’m sure you’ll hear this from others, we appreciate you having us here. We appreciate all that you’re doing today to keep all of us safe, and secure first, and working on trying to secure a good future for the economy, as you point out that was quite strong, but obviously being impacted by this, Vice President Pence, to you and all others that are working on this day and night, we appreciate it. As the president pointed out, we’re one of the biggest industries in the country, we’re one of the biggest employers in the country.
<04:33>
And our industry as you will hear from others has been impacted in a devastating way. I’ve personally lived through many crisis starting with the SNL, the 9/11 crisis, the great recession. I’ve been doing this for 35 years, never seen anything like it. And so we’re hoping to have a constructive dialogue about how we protect the small businesses that make up the bulk of this industry, and how we protect the people on the front lines of this industry that number five billion people that at this point, given what’s going on in our industry are in harm’s way.
<05:14>
I was looking at our numbers for last night, it is strikingly similar everywhere in the world. If you look around the world, within, I would say just a few days or maybe a week, we will probably be running 10 to 15% occupancy.
<05:35>
That’s everywhere in the world. It’s a little bit better here, but catching up. If you look at the major cities around the United States, they’re running in the single digits, which means, for the first time in a hundred years, Hilton has been around a hundred years, we’ve never closed a hotel that wasn’t going to be demolished for rebuilding, the bulk of our hotels in the major cities are closing as we speak.
<06:09>
We do. That’s our first priority.
<06:16>
All over the world it’s a disaster. There’s not one part of the world that’s not getting severely impacted.
<09:30>
It’s coming back slow.
<14:39>
I think the issue with that, sorry to interrupt Mark, Mr. President, is that when our owners are running 8, 9%, like I said, we’re shutting hotels. So all of those employees are being furloughed or laid off right now, day-by-day. Jim Murren is here somewhere, 80,000 people this week, we’re tens of thousands, because our owners can’t pay it.
Mark H.: <15:03>
So that’s the key issue that I was really making, is the timing. It’s happening instantaneously.
<15:09>
One of the things we want to talk about is trying to create the fund for those people in order to stop that from happening.
<15:19>
I think that would have to, in lieu of sort of unemployment insurance it would be-
<15:26>
I think the fund for that probably, our quarterly payroll for the industry is $45 billion in total. You can sort of scale it from there.
