<27:38>
Thank you, Mr. President. Great to be here. Thank you to the team, your leadership team as well. And look, I’m here representing our great franchisees for both brands, Dunkin’ and Baskin. I don’t think a lot of people realize that we’re 100% franchised, and so big brand names powered by small independent business owners. We’ve got a saying in the company, that we think we’ve been getting …
<28:03>
… in the company, that we think we’ve been getting America running for nearly 70 years, and when this crisis hit, it was about keeping the communities running, but it was also about getting America working again. And so, we’ve been guided by one simple principle, on the next slide, that we’ve been talking about is, it’s been about doing the right thing in the communities we serve, and 90% of our restaurants have remained open during the crisis. We’ve rallied around that mantra of people over profits and doing the right thing there, and look, we’re very proud that we didn’t have to furlough or do layoffs during all of that. And look, our great franchisees, I’m really proud of the work that they’ve been doing in the communities they serve. They live in these communities. They’re proud to be there. They serve probably coffee, donuts, ice cream to over 300 hospitals. They continue to do that. They raised $1.5 million for food banks, including the Capital Food Bank here in our backyard here in D.C. as well.
<28:58>
And so, as somebody said, we’re starting to see a lot of hope and optimism in our business today. We’re seeing really good signs of encouraging green shoots right now. We’re working with the franchisees, again, to get America working again, looking at a really aggressive hiring campaign over the summer. But I’d say it’s three areas that we focused on that was really a good north star for us. And the first was, we got in early on a lot of the safety measures, making investments in safety measures as brand standards across both brands, but for us, and brands like Dunkin’ and Baskin, our mission is to give the consumer as many ways to access your brand on their terms.
<29:41>
We know there’s a lot of consumers out there that have varying levels of comfort in terms of what’s going on right now. So whether it’s drive-thru, curbside, pick-up windows, delivery, you’ll hear a lot about digital today as well, giving the consumer as many options, as many choices to access your brand is important. And I think the last thing, I’ll repeat what a few other people said, thank you to you and your administration, the federal government, for the PPP program. That has really allowed us to keep our franchisees standing up, allowed them to continue to serve the communities and keep America working, and my ask in all of this would be, the second version of this that sailed through the house, the flexibility plan on PPP, I’m just hoping that it sales through cleanly and gets to your desk to be signed because that’s another great example of helping small, independent business owners like our franchisees keep America working right now. So, thank you for your consideration.
<30:42>
Yeah, thank you.
