<13:41>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I think those of you who heard the town hall, we are continuing to accelerate testing at a record rate. We now have 370,000 tests that have been done. The majority of those, over 220,000 in the last eight days, which those of you who have been tracking the South Korea numbers, put us equivalent to what they did in eight weeks that we did an eight days. This was made possible because of the HHS team working together, bringing together the strength of the FDA with the CDC and under the leadership of secretary ASR. We’re very proud of those numbers but we know that we have to do more and we continue to accelerate in testing to ensure that those who need the test are tested first and have access.
<14:26>
As we talked about yesterday, we’re working on the ability for people to take their own sample. That does not mean home testing, that means taking your own sample in the front of your nose with available swabs into normal saline that can be transported to the laboratories. That will allow and free up all of the drive throughs to be very sparing on PPE, because you’ll be able to do that with gloves rather than the full PPE outfits. This will allow for more of that PPE to be dedicated to our hospitals.
<15:01>
I think those of you who are tracking this epidemic closely like I am, you will begin to see that there is encouraging results coming out of Italy. We are impressed by the decreases that are seen in mortality, the number of people succumbing to this illness, and the number of new cases. Our new cases will continue to surge because we’re still working on our backlog, although we will be in touch with the laboratories after this press conference to really find out how many are still in backlog and how many were run in the last 24 hours. Until we can get into a 24 hour cycle, we’re going to have disproportional number of new cases compared to the actual new cases, and we will let you know when we’ve reached that equilibrium.
<15:45>
Finally, and I know Dr. Fauci Will talk about this further, we remain deeply concerned about New York City and the New York Metro area. About 56% of all the cases in the United States are coming out of that Metro area and 60% of all the new cases are coming out of the Metro New York area, and 31% of the people succumbing to this disease. It means, because they still are at the 31% mortality compared to the other regions of the country, that we can have a huge impact if we unite together.
<16:18>
This means, as in all places, they have to be following the presidential guidelines that were put out eight or nine days ago, and this will be critical. But to everyone who has left New York over the last few days, because of the rate of the number of cases you may have been exposed before you left New York. And I think like Governor DeSantis has put out today, everybody who was in New York should be self quarantining for the next 14 days to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread to others, no matter where they have gone, whether it’s Florida, North Carolina or out too far, far reaches of long Island.
<16:59>
We are starting to see new cases across new one across Long Island that suggest people have left the city, so this will be very critical that those individuals do self quarantine in their homes over these next 14 days to make sure they don’t pass the virus to others based on the time that they left New York. So if they’ve already are four days out, then it’s just 10 more days. So I thank you if you help get that message out to others. Dr. Fauci.
