<05:50>
Yeah, I think you could see from California they made slow the spread the phase one of their four phases. So every governor is adapting, both currently where we are and moving forward, of how to move through phase one, phase two, phase three. So if a governor feels like they haven’t met the grading criteria, some of them have made that their own first phase one and some of them made up phase zero. So we’ve been very encouraged to see how the federal guidelines have help informed or at least provide a framework for governors in moving forward all the way through from what they now call either phase zero all the way through phase three.
<07:13>
And thank you for mentioning the vulnerable people because we’ve made it clear from over the last eight weeks that there was certain risk groups that were particularly vulnerable to serious disease. That has held up. We see in most of reports about 95% to 96% of the individuals with serious disease and hospitalizations are still in those groups. I think, in a way, that’s reassuring, but it also should be a message to all of our vulnerable populations. As we have said for the last eight weeks, in phase one and in phase two, as well as in slow the spread, we’ve been very clear about them continuing to shelter and those families protecting them from becoming infected.
<23:31>
So what we have talked about and what was in the blueprint in talking with states, and you can see, I mean this is Louisiana’s curve. They got to this curve of mitigation and containment across the state with about 26,000 tests per million. Or about 26 yeah, 26,000 tests per million, million of their population. So these tests, and I’ve been very clear about it, these are RNA tests, which means you take the virus out of there, your nose, you’ve got to crack the virus open, extract out the RNA, amplify the RNA, and then get an answer. And you can see that’s happening inside a machine. Sometimes lab directors and lab technicians have to <inaudible 00:24:17> physically mix all of those reagents. That’s when you hear about extraction reagents and why they’re needed. And so what we had in the blueprint is really a call to action to really work on developing antigen tests like we use for flu.
<24:32>
Because when you’re using an antigen test in a doctor’s office, then you can get to potentially that number. I’m not sure we need that number. I don’t want to validate that number, but I’m saying is with this current test and the complication of how it has to be run, that’s not physically possible. And I think that’s what Admiral Giroir was speaking to. But as we’ve talked about ID NOW we continue to develop more testing and different platforms. But I think we do need that kind of new breakthrough to a new technique, a new measurement to get to the kind of numbers that Harvard’s talking about. But I think we’ve made it clear all along that states have controlled and mitigated with the current number. And as you heard from the governor, he didn’t shut everything down. He has a curve like this with still a significant number of Louisianans working.
<25:23>
So I think what every governor is working on is how do I get the most people I can back to work and still maintain high level of safety. And I think what’s the roadmap and the criteria and the testing come together to create that. This will not be a testing alone piece. And as you just heard about the Roosevelt, and I bring this up every time, this asymptomatic spread will be important. And we just heard about 800 cases, 10 or less than 10 in the hospital, or 10 to 15 in the hospital. 800, 10 or 15 in the hospital. If you’re only diagnosing symptomatic cases, you may be missing a large part of the spread. And I think that’s why strategically using testing in a new way, a monitoring way, a monitoring way to proactively find asymptomatic individuals, particularly when they surround our most vulnerable groups, whether it’s Native Americans or long term care facilities.
<26:20>
We want governors to simultaneously work on finding the cases as they did so superbly. And then work on a proactive measurement to find the asymptomatic cases. And I think those two pieces have to come together. And I think that’s what’s in the blueprint. That’s what we’re having the calls with the states with and really see how do we effectively use our current testing capacity to ensure we’re both monitoring and diagnosing.
