<23:00>
Thank you, Mr. President. We’ve made amazing progress together with the American people and with you all. As you heard the President describe, new hospitalizations are down month over month by 50%. Mortality, the fatalities that we all grieve are down significantly week over week. We’re excitingly really finding governors and mayors being able to respond to the epidemic in a new way, proactive testing, finding new cases, contact tracing, and stopping outbreaks. We’re seeing that over and over again, County by County, Metro by Metro.
<23:33>
I think we’re working with all of the healthcare providers, because just as we want to open up America safely, we want us to make sure every American has access to healthcare. We want to see our babies immunized. We want to see them at their well baby checkups. We want to see pregnant women cared for in their appointments, and we want to see the hospitals back caring for people, doing elective surgery, and ensuring people are getting their cancer screenings. So as we open up the economy, we also want to ensure the Americans are not only COVID free, but have all their healthcare taken care of.
<24:07>
Much improved numbers. And I think this proactive testing, having enough tests available, not only for diagnosing at the hospitals and clinic, but having an abundance of testing available to really be able to do what we talk about as proactive surveillance, going into nursing homes and testing 100% of the residents, 100% of the workers, working in food processing plants to test everyone that is there and really stopping outbreaks before they start.
<24:31>
This asymptomatic piece is unique among diseases. We have that in HIV. We have it in this particular respiratory disease, so you have to test proactively to find the asymptomatic. No one intends to infect others. They just don’t know they’re infected themselves. So working with States and governors and mayors to really set up those testing sites has really been extraordinary, and having a testing available at that level, I think we’re about 350,000, 400,000 tests a day. We’re up to having tested 5% of every American in less than two months.
