<57:00>
Great. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I think what you’ve been hearing from us is to find solutions that are high quality and sustainable based on the front line workers and governor’s request. Those come in on the governor’s call. We’ve been immediately responsive to those. That’s the level of red tape and bureaucracy that we have removed.
<57:23>
I think that point about sustainability and quality is very important because as the President says, we’re creating a roadmap for a different level of functionality for future pandemics. Our flu pandemic preparedness plan was a plan. Now we are seeing where we have to revise, where we have to create new avenues of research and new avenues of work to really ensure that the need of the American people can be reached. We were adamant about having a high-quality test based on our commercial vendors. Over the next few months, you will begin to see that other tests that were utilized around the world were not of the same quality resulting in false positives and potentially false negatives. These tests were studied and studied by the FDA to really ensure that they are that level of quality. We’ve given the states the permission to ensure that same level of quality.
<58:19>
Now, I wanted to say one minute on the testing. Testing should not be used as an assessment of your risk. We are asking every single American, no matter what your generation, from Z and up to X and millennials in between, to really ensure that you’re following these guidelines. We hear every night of people who are not in work moving that time into bars and other areas of large gatherings. If we continue with that process, we will fail in containing this virus. Every single generation has a role to play. We’re asking our older generation to stay in their homes. We’re asking the younger generations to support them in social contacting through videos and other Skype-type functions or just the simple telephone. We’re asking the younger generations to stop going out in public places to bars and restaurants and spreading asymptomatic virus onto countertops and knobs and grocery stores and grocery carts.
<59:23>
I heard an innovation last night and this morning again on the news. I really want to apply the private sector who are now creating senior-only shopping times. I think that’s extraordinary. I think that shows what America brings. I think other countries will learn from us about how to really protect seniors in this type of way. I’m hoping that carries through to next year when we have our flu epidemic where we can really have a very different profile of the amount of mortality that we have during flu that we never talk about. Anywhere from 15,000 to 45,000 individuals are lost every year. If we learn how to do this well and sustain some of those core changes, we can change the way respiratory viruses, not only for this, but the future affect Americans.
<01:00:40>
You are singing my sheet of music. I’m very data-oriented. Thank you for bringing up this issue of data. I really want to applaud HHS. We had a discussion about this several days ago. They’ve made calls into Seattle and California to really understand that and also importantly to understand how many of their patients needed ventilators, how many of them needed oxygen support, how many of them needed and what they needed. Could we predict early someone who was going to have a more difficult course? These are all the questions we’re asking right and answering right now.
<01:01:16>
We did get an early report back from Santa Clara and Seattle. We’re digesting it. We just got it this morning. We’re looking at that carefully because we think that roadmap is very important to other communities. We have not discussed this with New York yet. We do know from other countries and that all is available online, that profile. You can see that mortality under 30 is extraordinarily low. The mortality across the board outside of Wuhan is now settling somewhere around 0.7, but that should not be reassuring because it’s much higher in people with preexisting medical conditions, even if young, and people that are older with preexisting medical conditions. We still want every American focused on doing what they can do today to change the course of this pandemic.
<01:02:07>
We’re committed not only to making it public, but to have a website that everyone can see in realtime.
<01:02:45>
That’s why the Vice President and the President yesterday issued those critical guidelines. As I said this morning on Fox & Friends, you can look at them as guidelines. You can look at them as requirements and you can look at him as the President asking every American in every state to follow those. That’s why we put them out at the federal level. We wanted to make sure every American knew what they could do today to change the course of this epidemic.
<01:03:11>
I think it’s empowering. I think it says all of us have a social responsibility to each other. That’s why we believe that every mayor and every governor should be instituting these guidelines that came from the White House and the President of the United States,
<01:03:43>
I think you will see different numbers this week. You’ve heard just at 8,000. Remember all of these tests, the high-speed tests were approved last Friday night and last Thursday night. I think if I could talk to Thermo Fisher and the other groups that have these platforms out there. Do not rely on a pull technology. Push out those tests because we can only make them available, groups have to order them. We’ve been talking to Thermo Fisher, one of the key platforms to push out tests based on need and not wait for orders.
<01:04:25>
That’s a great question. I know part of it is getting the test out right now. I think the Admiral and others are working on getting the issues related to getting the test conducted. Obviously, that does take time. He is working on innovative solutions that are creative and sustainable that will be a game changer in testing, but we don’t have the data yet. This is a critical comparitor. Can you do it yourself? Can you actually sample yourself? These are the kinds of things we’re working on right now. He’s getting the data for us.
<01:05:27>
I think models are models. They’re based on input. They’re based on infectiousness without any controls. I can tell you we’ve never seen that level of infections that modeled up to that 2.2 million in mortality. We are looking at that. We are having a particularly model meeting tomorrow. I think that’s really going to be important. I’ve dealt with a lot of modelers in my time. They’re wonderful people, but they all have their favorite inputs and they all have their favorite integration functions. We’re evaluating all of those so we can integrate and create the best model for the United States based on the best data. That first set of recommendations you saw were based on what we could do today to prevent anything that looks like that.
<01:06:13>
If I could just say one other thing to the hospitals and dentists out there. Things that don’t need to be done over the next two weeks, don’t get it done. If you’re a person with an elective surgery, you don’t want to go into a hospital right now. There’s a lot of distraction. There’s a lot of people doing a lot of other things to save people’s lives. Let’s all be responsible and cancel things that we can cancel to really free up hospital beds and space. Then let’s do everything that we can to ensure that we don’t need the ventilators because we’ve protected the people who would have needed to use them.
<01:40:24>
I can.
<01:40:26>
Yeah, so I tried to cover this in the answer when I talked about quality of kits. Our quality analysis runs through the FDA. All of these platforms we have asked people to submit and we’ve asked states to quality control. I mean, anybody could submit their test to us. We don’t buy tests that haven’t been quality controlled and they show us the data. Either show us the data upfront or show us the data after they’ve been running them because quality testing for our American people is paramount to us. It doesn’t help to put out a test where 50% or 47% are false positive. Imagine what that would mean to the American people. Imagine their level of concern now and telling people that they’re false positive. We take this same approach to HIV. Imagine telling someone they were positive to HIV and they weren’t. That is our bottom line, the customer, the American people first. Any of these groups can submit their testing kits through our regulatory processes, but without that and without a plan, we are not going to accept tests that have not been studied by us.
<01:42:36>
Joe Biden <crosstalk 01:42:37>
