<01:08>
Okay. Thank you very much. Good to be with you all. We’re in a very critical phase of our war against the coronavirus. It’s vital that every American follows our guidelines on the 30 days to slow the spread. The sacrifices we make over the next four weeks will have countless American lives saved. We’re going to save a lot of American lives. We’re in control of our own fate, very much so. Maintaining social distance, practicing vigorous hygiene and staying at home are your most effective ways to win the war and to escape danger.
<01:54>
While you’re fighting this battle from home we’re working with the best scientists, doctors, and researchers anywhere in the world. We’re racing to develop new ways to protect against the virus as well as therapies, treatments, and ultimately a vaccine, and we’re making a lot of progress, I think medically a lot of progress.
<02:14>
At the same time, we’re also racing to get relief to American workers and small businesses, as you know. I want to remind small business owners across America that the paycheck protection program is launching tomorrow. Nearly $350 billion in loans will be available to small businesses including sole proprietors. These loans are up to 100% forgivable as long as employers keep paying their workers, got to take care of your workers.
<02:46>
Furthermore, we want Social Security beneficiaries to know that if they are typically not required to file a tax return, they don’t have to file one in order to receive the direct cash payments that will soon be distributed to American citizens. The treasury will deposit the money directly into the bank accounts, and don’t forget, I will always protect your Social Security, your Medicare and your Medicaid. We’re protecting Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid and I always will.
<03:18>
I’d like now to invite SBA Administrator Jovita Carranza who is doing a fantastic job. She’s going to be very busy in the next little while and Secretary Steve Mnuchin to say a few words about these vital initiatives and then we’ll get onto the attack of the virus itself and please if I might, Steve and Jovita.
<10:33>
Thank you Steve. For Jovita or Steve, any questions?
<25:54>
Thank you all.
<25:54>
Thank you, Steve. Good job. Thank you. Okay, so that begins right away and they start handing out checks, and a lot of people are going to have their businesses built back up quickly I hope. And we’ll see it. Complicated big small businesses, actually big business. So I thank them both. And please, we have some great gentlemen. Let me see, great gentlemen. That’s correct. Thank you very much.
<26:26>
Today, my administration is also issuing new guidelines to protect elderly Americans who remain the most vulnerable. By now, nursing homes should have suspended the entry of all medically unnecessary personnel. Today we’re further recommending that all nursing home facilities assign the same staff to care for the same group of residents consistently to minimize any potential spread, and we’re also urging facilities to designate separate areas for healthy and sick residents. And this is a practice that we probably will be recommending into the future long after the enemy has gone, this particular enemy is gone.
<27:07>
We’re also making every effort to provide relief to our great veterans. We take very good care of our veterans. At my direction Secretary Wilkie will use any authority at his disposal to extend deadlines for benefits and to postpone debt collections. We’re now conducting well over 100,000 coronavirus tests per day. It’s over 100,000 tests a day, and these are accurate tests and they’re moving rapidly, which is more than any other country in the world, both in terms of the raw number and also on a per capita basis the most.
<27:47>
The FDA has also authorized the first coronavirus antibody test developed a body Cellex, a key step that will help identify people who have recovered and to understand their immune response and their immune system. Moments ago I directed Secretary Azar, and acting Secretary Wolf to use any and all available authority under the Defense Production Act to ensure that domestic manufacturers have the supplies they need to produce ventilators for patients with severe cases of C-O-V-I-D-19. You know what that is, right? Become a very famous term C-O-V-I-D. COVID.
<28:29>
This action will help General Electric Hill-Rom, Medtronic, Resmed, Royal Phillips, and Vyaire Medical overcome obstacles in the supply chain that threaten the rapid production of ventilators. We have over 100,000 being built right now or soon to be started. We anticipate issuing more orders under the Defense Production Act in the very near future. In addition to the one that I’ve just signed against 3M for face masks, we just signed an element of the act against 3M and hopefully they’ll be able to do what they are supposed to do.
<29:15>
Just spoke to Mary Barra of General Motors and she said they’re very soon going to be ready to start production of the ventilators. They have a lot of ventilators that they’ve committed to build, and they’ll be starting very, very quickly. FEMA continues to deliver resources to areas most effected by the virus, including New York. On top of the 3,000 beds we’re already providing to the Javits Center, the Department of Defense is adding another 48 ICU beds.
<29:44>
Governor Cuomo has asked that this facility go and it’s a big beautiful facility. It’d be converted to a COVID hospital and we hadn’t done that yet. We hadn’t thought in terms of doing that, but their use is, their real demand is for that. And we had meetings on it with the task force. We had meetings with the military and I’ve decided to say, yes, I’m going to do that. That I will be signing and agreeing to a yes answer so that we will be doing that and also we will be staffing it so the federal government is doing a lot of things that wasn’t anticipated that it do. This is a 2,500 and/or 2,900, can easily be set up, hospital built in Javits Center. And so we’re going to be converting that to a COVID-19 hospital and it’s going to be a staffed by the military and by the federal government.
<30:52>
And based on the fact that I agreed to that, we had two other facilities that will likewise asking for it and that would be in Louisiana and also in Dallas and we’ll be doing those. We spoke to the governor of Louisiana, spoke to the governor of Texas, and we’ve told them that we will be staffing those hospitals again above and beyond, but that’s okay. We have to do that. In addition to USNS Comfort is docked in New York to accept patients that is non-COVID.
<31:27>
To date FEMA has delivered more than 4 million N95 mask respirators. Think of that, 4 million, 4 million. Don’t forget we’re a secondary source. The states are doing it and we’re backing them up, but we’ve gotten 4 million N95 respirators, 1.8 million surgical masks, 460,000 face shields, 1.4 million gloves and 4,400 ventilators just to the city and to the State of New York and some of them now are being sent. I spoke with both the Governor Cuomo and Mayor De Blasio a little while ago and some of them are being sent to the city.
<32:11>
All of America stands with the people of New York in this time of need. It’s definitely a hot spot, but we have other hotspots also and we’re taking care of them very, very strongly, very powerfully. We have the finest people in the world in those locations and I think the federal government has not only acted early but acted quickly, professionally. There’s no people like this. Doctors, nurses, first responders and other healthcare providers who want to help New York at this critical time should visit website, nyc.gov/helpnow. Nyc.gov/helpnow. they need help now. They need people to help them.
<32:56>
We have great facilities and we’ve built some brand new facilities, big ones, but we need help. We need help for professional people. So if you’re in an area that isn’t so affected, and you’re a doctor, a nurse, a health care worker, please get to that website and we would really appreciate your help. New York city needs it. Louisiana, by the way, needs it. Michigan needs it. Whatever you can do, those are very strong hotspots. They need help.
<33:25>
In recent weeks, as the virus has spread and economic hardship has followed, we have seen Americans unite with incredible selflessness and compassion. I want to remind everyone here in our nation’s capital, especially in Congress, that this is not the time for politics, endless partisan investigations. Here we go again. I’ve already done extraordinary damage to our country in recent years. You see what happens. It’s a witch hunt after witch hunt after witch hunt and in the end the people doing the witch hunt have been losing and they’ve been losing by a lot, and it’s not any time for witch hunts, it’s time to get this enemy defeated. Conducting these partisan investigations in the middle of a pandemic is a really big waste of vital resources, time, attention, and we want to fight for American lives, not waste time and build up my poll numbers cause that’s all they’re doing. Because everyone knows it’s ridiculous.
<34:29>
So we want to focus on the people of this country, even the people of the world, we’re going to be able to help them because right now, as an example, we’re building so many ventilators, very, very hard to build, but we’re building thousands, thousands of them and a lot of them will be coming at a time where we won’t need them as badly because it takes time. Very complex, very expensive. And we’ll be able to help outside of our country. We think we’ll be able to help. That’s something that you cannot easily produce. As citizens we’re linked together by the shared bonds of national love, loyalty, and affection.
<35:03>
We’re linked together by the shared bonds of national love, loyalty, and affection. There’s no earthly force more powerful than the patriotic pride that stirs in our hearts. And that is so true.
<35:10>
It’s incredible the job that everybody’s been doing. Everybody. They don’t sleep. They don’t go to bed. Sometimes they get nothing. Said to somebody recently on the task force, how many hours sleep have you gotten over the last couple of days? The answer was none. None.
<35:28>
In one Massachusetts neighborhood citizens come out of their homes each night at eight o’clock from their porches and they sing God Bless America. Others have joined in spreading from house to house down one street up to the next until their little town with a spirit of patriotism and reminding all Americans that we’re all in this together. We’ll fight together and we will win together. We’re going to win this.
<35:53>
Now what I’d like to do is I’m going to step out.
<35:56>
We have a meeting on the subject and I’m going to step out just for a few moments. I’ll be right back. We’ll answer some questions. But you have some very hardworking people who have done an incredible job led by Vice President Mike Pence, head of the task force. And then Jared Kushner is going to say a few words and Admiral <Polowczyk 00:01:17>, Peter Navarro, Dr. Birx and myself.
<36:21>
I’ll be right back. So I’ll see you in a little while. I did take a test. It just came out. This is from the white house physician. It just came out. I just took it this morning. And I took it. It took me literally a minute to take it and it took me, I guess it was 14 or 15 minutes. I went to work. I didn’t wait for it, but he said it took 14 minutes or something to come up with a conclusion and it said the President tested negative for COVID 19.
<36:52>
So that’s the second one. I think I took it really out of curiosity to see how quickly it worked and fast it worked and it’s a lot easier. I’ve done them both. And the second one is much more pleasant, Jeff, I can tell you that. Much more pleasant.
<37:04>
So I’ll be back in a little while and Mike please take over. Thank you. Thank you all very much. I’ll be right back.
<01:02:25>
And coming here.
<01:11:13>
<crosstalk 01:11:13> You did a good job, thank you.
Journalist 1: <01:11:15>
<crosstalk 01:11:15> by American executive order?
<01:11:18>
Go ahead. Go ahead, answer. You go ahead. Come here. Com here.
<01:13:51>
And by the way, we’ve cut them out also to be honest. We’ve stopped orders going from certain places and… In a couple of places we had a big order going to Italy on important outfits and some ventilators and it was going to Italy. They made the order a long time ago and I said, “You got to let it go.” They’ve had an order and I could have cut it under the act. I could have cut it. I said, “Nope, can’t do that. You’ve got to let it go.” They have big problems. We had an order going to Spain and I said, “Let it go.” I could have stopped it. I said, “Let it go. We’re going to be fine.” I said, “Let it go.” So it works that way also.
<01:14:27>
One other thing that’s to your question, oftentimes, and we’ve told this to the governors, Mike, we’ve been very strong on this. If you think there’s bidding between federal government and state, let us know and we’ll drop out immediately or you drop out and we lower the price… <crosstalk 00:04:46>.
Journalist 2: <01:14:45>
<crosstalk 01:14:45> bidding against each other?
<01:14:45>
No. No. If we’re bidding against each other I said find out who it is. And usually they know, everyone knows and we’re notified and we get notified and we’ll either drop out or they’ll drop out. But we have another problem. There are 151 countries out there beyond the States. There are 151 countries that have this problem and they’re ordering, too. It’s really a mess <crosstalk 01:15:09> Now in a little while the hardest thing to get are the ventilators because it takes a while to build them and we have thousands of them being built right now. In a little while they’ll be worth about $5 but right now they’re very valuable and we’re going to have a lot of them being shipped. In fact, that’s why General Motors called up before, Mary. That’s why others called up two days ago. They called up that they’re all in production and they’re starting to arrive in a week and a half, but there’ll be a time when we’re going to build stockpiles.
<01:15:41>
By the way, the States should have been building their stockpile. We have almost 10,000 and our stockpile and we’ve been building it and we’ve been supplying it, but the States should be building. We’re a backup. We’re not an ordering clerk. We’re a back up and we’ve done an unbelievable job. Like for instance, whoever heard of a governor calling up, ” Sir, can you build us a hospital of 2,500 rooms?” And we built it. “Can you build us four medical centers?” We built it. “Can you deliver a ship, a hospital ship with a thousand rooms?” And we did it and we did it in Los Angeles, too. We’ve been unbelief. We’ve done an unbelievable job… These people and thousands of people behind them, but we’re a backup. Ideally those hospitals would have had all this equipment. Ideally those States should have had all this equipment and I think they will the next time.
<01:16:32>
You heard the case where thousands of ventilators could have been had at a very inexpensive price three years ago and a certain state decided not to exercise that right because they wanted to build a road or they wanted to build something else because it’s big money. You’re talking about, I think it was $1 billion, but you’re talking about a lot of money for something that may never happen. Because normally on a ventilator other than a pandemic or an epidemic, you wouldn’t need anything like this. Hospitals have three ventilators, big hospitals, and they get by with it. And now they want thousands. I mean they want thousands of ventilators. You call up a governor and they’ll say, “Sir, could you send us 40,000 ventilators?” Nobody has ever heard of a thing like this. So they’ve done some job. Let me just tell you when secretary Mnuchin spoke, they want you to call not .com but sba.gov, okay? For the application and for information, okay? So it’s SBA, small business, sba.gov, okay? If you don’t mind. Yeah, let’s go, please…
Journalist 3: <01:17:40>
Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to follow up from a question yesterday regarding your administration’s denial of the expansion Obamacare special enrollment period in the wake of this pandemic. In your own words, VP Pence gave a five minute a non answer, but people facing this pandemic illness and even worse, most experts say that having healthcare is critical to our nation’s health and financial wellbeing. Can you assure Americans tonight that you will reopen Obamacare marketplace so that they can be covered in this time of combined health and financial crisis?
<01:18:10>
Yeah. I understand the question and we’re doing better than that. We’re going to try and get a cash payment to the people and we’re working out the mechanics of that with legislature, so we’re going to try and get them a cash payment because just opening it up doesn’t help as much. So we’re going to work it out so we’re going to try and get for that certain group of people… It’s a certain group of people, a cash payment.
Journalist 2: <01:18:36>
I really want to ask you about masks, but I also just meant to follow up on a couple of hanging threads there. Just the question earlier about the bidding. What happens though when States are bidding against each other on those markets?
<01:18:47>
Well, they have that and they have to work that out. What they should do is they should have, long before this pandemic arrived, they should have been, on the open market, just buying. There was no competition. You could have made a great price. The States have to stock up. It’s like one of those things they waited, they didn’t want to spend the money because they thought this would never happen and their shelves in some cases were bare. And by the way, in some cases they weren’t. They were beautifully serviced. They did a good job, but in some cases their shelves were bare.
<01:19:18>
So the best thing they can do is when times become normalized, and they will hopefully soon… And actually you’re going to have a lot of excess material because so much is being done right now in terms of protective gear, protective outfits, a lot’s being done. It’s going to be within six months. It’s going to be sold for the right price. They got to stack up for the next time. But we are doing that and the Admiral’s done a fantastic job. Senator Schumer wrote a letter today and he says, you should put a military manager. Just said, well, “Chuck, if you knew a little bit more, we have one of the most highly respected people in the military, the Admiral. This is what he does, too. Very professionally. And he’s in charge.” But Chuck didn’t know that.
<01:20:02>
Okay.
Journalist 4 : <01:20:04>
Mr. President, you tweeted this morning about your call with Saudi Arabia’s MBS. We’ve had some people say that the figures that you cited between 10 million and 15 million barrels per day is not what they’re agreeing to. Can you be more specific about <crosstalk 01:20:19>
<01:20:19>
I don’t know what they’re agreeing to. I think they might agree to more than that. Look, Russia <crosstalk 01:20:26> yeah, we did say that actually. Russia talked about 10 million barrels. Russia and Saudi Arabia are fighting over this and as everybody knows, it’s really killing an industry, hurting Russia badly, hurting Saudi Arabia badly. I said, “This is an easy one. It should be an easy one.” And it may be 10 and it may be more than that. I was actually told it may be 10 as I told somebody before, it may be 10 and it may be more than that. Maybe it’s 15 maybe it goes up to 15 could be as high as 15 and there’s a tremendous oversupply right now. That industry was oversupplied before the virus and where the virus came along, they lost 35, 40% of the world.
<01:21:14>
And there’s an unbelievable… You can’t get a ship now. Every ship is loaded to the gills sitting out someplace in the ocean. They’re storage tanks, they’re not even ships, they’re storage tanks. So it would be great for Russia. It would be great for Saudi Arabia. I hope they make that deal. But that’s what they told me. They said it’s… <crosstalk 01:21:31> Well, I think it’ll be hopefully soon. I think hopefully they’ll announce something soon. Now can a deal be broken? Can something happen where it doesn’t happen? I guess in which case there’s another alternative, but I’d rather not see that other alternative. I hope they can make a deal. I think they both want to make a deal and they’re both smart. They love their countries, they want to make a deal. It’s good, but it’s also good for the world if they do because you save an industry. Go ahead. Go ahead in the back.
Journalist 5: <01:22:02>
What do you mean by cash payments?
<01:22:06>
We went over this very specifically and I’ll let you talk about it, Mike, as you responded last time.
<01:23:50>
No, but I talked to him about it and he wants to do what’s right for the people of Florida. He’s been a great governor. You could see that just by his popularity, which is extraordinary. We’re proud of him. He’s done a fantastic job. And he made the decision, but we spoke before he made the decision. Yes.
Journalist 6: <01:24:07>
And he’s also said that he is considering putting people who are suspected of having coronavirus or who have tested positive for it in isolation centers so that he could <crosstalk 00:14:17>.
<01:24:18>
That I haven’t heard, no. That I haven’t heard.
Journalist 6: <01:24:18>
So hasn’t consulted with you?
<01:24:20>
I haven’t heard that.
Journalist 7: <01:24:21>
Thank you, Mr. President. Ebony Bowden from the New York Post. A few hours ago, mayor De Blasio, the Mayer of New York, said that New Yorkers leaving their hearts to wear masks, they should also wear masks when they’re with other people. Are you considering that kind of recommendation on a federal level? And if you are, how would you prevent a rush on N95 masks?
<01:24:40>
Well, I think they’re going to be coming out with regulations on that and if people want to abide by them, frankly, I don’t think they’ll be mandatory because some people don’t want to do that. But if people want… As an example on the masks, if people wanted to wear them, they can. If people wanted to use scarves, which they have, many people have them, they can. In many cases the scarf is better. It’s thicker. Depending on the material, it’s thicker. But they could do that if they want. Now a recommendation’s coming out. We’ll see what that recommendation is. <crosstalk 01:25:14> But I will say this, they can pretty much decide for themselves right now.
Journalist 8: <01:25:18>
<crosstalk 01:25:18> nationwide? And can I just also ask… <crosstalk 01:25:19> and I think this as best for Dr. Burke’s. But we’ve heard some differing guidance here. The WHO and even the surgeon general have talked about various studies that show that masks in addition to maybe not even being helpful to protecting people may actually increase the rates of illness because people touch the masks and they touch themselves. Can you talk a little bit about just the evolution of your thinking on this? <crosstalk 01:25:42>.
<01:25:40>
All right. Maybe I will ask Dr. Burkes. And you might mention that other point also.
<01:35:43>
They are being made.
<01:35:46>
They’re moving very quickly.
<01:38:45>
We didn’t discuss that. They want to do that. That’s good for their countries and we did not discuss that now.
Journalist 11: <01:38:52>
<crosstalk 01:38:52> NBC News has learned that the Navy is set to fire the Captain of the USS Theodore Roosevelt after he raised red flags about the Covid-19 outbreak on his ship. It appears as if he’s being punished for trying to save the lives of the sailors in his command. What’s your assessment?
<01:39:09>
<crosstalk 01:39:09> we’re going to wait a little while because I understand there’s a news conference by the secretary of defense about that. But you know, I don’t agree with that at all. Not at all. Not even a little bit. Yeah.
Journalist 12: <01:39:20>
Thank you. This morning you said once again that New York got off to a late start and they should have pushed harder but governors and other state leaders say they rely on the federal government to assess the situation and how risky it is and they want to know how would they have known to start sooner without your guidance?
<01:39:42>
Well, they have experts and frankly long after we came out and talked about it… Look, how would I have known to cut off China? I cut off China very early and if I didn’t, we would have a chart that you wouldn’t believe. So how would I know to do that? How would I know to cut off Europe? I cut off Europe very early. You have to make a decision. People knew that some bad things were going on and they got off to a late start and some others got off to a late start also, but we cut off China. If we didn’t cut off China, we would have been in some big trouble and we cut it off and you know what? We cut it off way early. Go ahead
Journalist 13: <01:40:31>
Mr. President, a follow up on the insurance point in a separate question that came in from a colleague who can’t be in the room.
<01:40:38>
Okay, go ahead.
Journalist 13: <01:40:38>
On the insurance point is they’re going to, <crosstalk 01:40:42>.
<01:40:41>
Who are you with?
Journalist 13: <01:40:42>
Roll Call. Is there going to be an opportunity for insurance companies, if in fact hospitals are compensated for uncompensated care, are the insurance companies going to also get compensated for its extraordinary expenses that they may have or they you’re assuming that cost?
<01:41:02>
So we haven’t discussed it but we’re talking to them. Getting them not to pay copays in the case of the big ones was a tremendous thing. That’s a lot of money they gave up, but we’re discussing that with the insurance companies. We’ll let you know. It’ll be pretty quickly. Yeah, go ahead.
Journalist 14: <01:41:16>
I have a question on Japan, sir. They are expanding their entry ban to include the United States. Are you planning to take any similar action to ban Japanese nationals from coming to the U.S. as a result of this crisis?
<01:41:31>
Well, we’re looking at a lot of things and a lot of different bans. We have more bans than anybody. We had bans when bans weren’t fashionable, if you remember right at the beginning of this administration was for different reasons. But we’ve had bans long before people thought of bans. When I did China, it had never been done before. I was the first one to do to remember that it had never, according to what I read it all the papers, this had never been done. This is a terrible thing to do. And four weeks later they were all saying, we’re lucky we did it. So we’re looking at it. No, we heard that. And I think it’s fine that they do that. They’re trying to protect their country and we have to protect our country. Yeah, please.
Journalist 10: <01:42:15>
<crosstalk 01:42:15> Mr. President, I asked you yesterday about stay at home orders and if that decision should be left in the hands of governors or if you’re considering telling the entire nation, “Stay at home.” So just today, Georgia’s governor finally issued a stay at home order saying that “Individuals could have been infecting people before they ever felt bad, but we didn’t know that until the last 24 hours.” Is that ignorance, gross incompetence? <crosstalk 01:42:40>
<01:42:40>
He’s a good governor, Brian Kemp. He’s a very good… <crosstalk 01:42:42> he’s a good.
Journalist 10: <01:42:43>
Have you been having calls with these governors?
<01:42:43>
He’s a good governor and he has to make his own decision on that. I let the States… I think we’re about 85% a positive on that. If you look, I think it’s about 85% of the States have got the stay at home. Brian’s a great governor. It’s his decision. He made that decision. Ultimately he decided to go along with it and they’re doing well and the state is doing well in many respects. Yeah, go ahead please.
Journalist 5: <01:43:07>
This is another question from a colleague who couldn’t make it in today from Emily Goodin at The Daily Mail. I had a question in regards to the Russian plane that landed at JFK with medical supplies. Did the United States ask Russia for this aid or is it just accepting it?
<01:43:21>
We’re accepting it. It was a very nice offer from President Putin. I spoke to him the other night as I told you, and they had excess medical equipment, things and I’ll take it, I’ll take it. I think it’s very nice. <crosstalk 01:43:36> We’ve had some from China. We also help other countries. We like doing that. Like I said before, if we have excess stuff, we let it go out. We let some go out where frankly they had orders for it and I didn’t want to stop orders. It was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin and I could have said “No thank you” or I could have said “Thank you” and it was a large plane of very high quality medical supplies and I said, ” I’ll take it.”
Journalist 5: <01:44:01>
Is he offering any further aid, in your conversation?
<01:44:04>
I think he would if we asked for it, but he was very nice. It was part of the call he suggested. He said, we have it, it’s additional. They have very big difficulties with this virus also, as you know, Russia. I thought it was a very nice gesture on behalf of President Putin. I could’ve said, “No, I don’t want it.” Or I could have said, “I’ll take it”, and you know what? I said, “I’ll take it.”
Journalist 5: <01:44:24>
<crosstalk 01:44:24> accept further aid?
<01:44:25>
I think so. Yeah. If they sent things that we need, I’d take it. Sure. Nice gesture.
Journalist 15: <01:44:30>
<crosstalk 01:44:30> Are you concerned about Russian propaganda?
<01:44:31>
I’m not concerned about Russian propaganda. Not even a little bit. He offered a lot of medical, high quality stuff that I accepted, and that may save a lot of lives. I’ll take it everyday. Please. In the back.
Journalist 16: <01:44:45>
<crosstalk 01:44:45> Mr. President you said that in January that you stand with the people of Iran since the beginning of your presidency and you’ll continue to stand with the people of Iran. Given the fact they’re so hard hit with coronavirus <crosstalk 01:44:57>.
<01:44:56>
Well, they’re very hard hit. They’re very hard hit. <crosstalk 01:44:57>
Journalist 16: <01:44:56>
But would you consider… <crosstalk 01:45:01>.
<01:44:56>
In a lot of ways they’re hard hit. They’re hard hit with their economy, with their military.
<01:45:03>
Hard hit. They are hit with their economy, with their military, and obviously the virus. They’re very hard hit.
Reporter 1: <01:45:07>
Would you consider easing sanctions to allow medical supplies to get in?
<01:45:11>
Well, they haven’t even asked us to do that.
Reporter 1: <01:45:12>
But we know that sanctions hit the people, not the government.
<01:45:16>
You know what? They haven’t even asked us to do that. If they want to meet, would love to meet and we’d love to settle the whole thing out, but I doubt they’ll be.
Reporter 1: <01:45:24>
So, realistically, how does a person in Tehran pick up the phone and call you?
<01:45:27>
I think they love America. I think the Iranians love America. I think they’d love to be free. I think they’d love to have just some of the things that we have. I remember Iran many years ago, friends of mine were always in Iran. They were doing real estate deals in Iran. They were building beautiful buildings all over Iran. Apartment houses. They were very successful and then one day that came to an end, but you know what? The people of Iran, they remember that. It was a long time ago, but not so long ago, and they remember it. And I’ll tell you, they love America. They love what we stand for and we’re not looking for change. We’re not looking for government takeover. Government change. This country has been through that many times. That doesn’t work.
Reporter 1: <01:46:10>
But you hope people do encourage other countries, who are maybe concerned about-
<01:46:14>
No, but what I did is I put it out very publicly with respect to Iran. I said, if they need help with respect to the virus, we have the greatest medical professionals in the world. We’d love to send them over.
Reporter 1: <01:46:26>
What countries are you encouraging perhaps to lend their support because there are many countries that feel-
<01:46:30>
I’m not encouraging or discouraging. They’ve been a very hostile country. They made a deal that President Obama should have never made. It was a short-term deal, giving them $150 billion, giving them $1.8 billion in cash. Green. Fill up this room five times.
Reporter 1: <01:46:47>
But, your administration, do you have a moral responsibility?
<01:46:49>
Nobody’s even asked. I have a moral responsibility to help them if they ask. If they needed help, I would certainly consider different plans.
Reporter 1: <01:46:58>
The United Nations says they need help.
<01:47:00>
Well, that’s up to the United Nations. I’m talking about us and what happens is, if they wanted help, because they have a very big case of virus. A very, very big case. One of the worst on earth, if you believe what you’re reading. And I happen to believe what I see and what I know and if they wanted help, we’d give them help. Yeah, you had one in the back.
Reporter 2: <01:47:23>
Thanks, Mr. President. And a question for Jared too. You talk about a granular approach to receiving data from these different states and regions to try and figure out what they need. The president, you just enacted the BPA on ventilators and masks. Are there any signals from across the country that might indicate there are other things besides masks and ventilators that are slowly rising in terms of need, like hand sanitizer for instance?
<01:52:12>
Or they don’t exist. Those sources don’t exist. They’re fake sources. A lot of fake sources out there. They don’t exist. For a lot of time I’ve been reading, a lot of the fake sources they don’t exist. The national stockpile,
Reporter 4: <01:52:19>
Thank you, Mr. President. Jared, what triggers sending a ventilator from the national stockpile to a state? In other words, how sick does somebody have to be to get one of these national ventilators?
<01:57:21>
But Deborah, aren’t you referring to just a few states because many of those States are dead flat? <crosstalk 01:57:28>
<01:58:54>
But, again, I look at the graphs all the time and you have many, many flatliners. I call them flatliners. I’m amazed at that. And you have a couple that are up. It’s hard to blame the flatliners for not doing a good job.
<02:00:03>
Yeah, because I saw those pens going five minutes ago. They were thrilled. The fact is, yes, we compare them to Italy, one place, and we have many places that are really doing, and I think that’s what Deborah meant. She didn’t mean all of them, so when you write your story tomorrow, maybe you’ll write it correctly. She was talking about one state and another state is having a hard time and they’re closely associated. By the way, the people are doing a very good job, including the people that live there. But, when Deborah was talking about Italy, she was talking about the one and then the other was lower and then you have mostly states that have been unbelievable. So, she wasn’t talking about the average of everything.
<02:00:47>
She was talking about an individual state, which is, I think, still better than Italy. Italy is having a hard time. By the way, Spain is having a hard time. France is having a hard time, but our states, generally speaking, it’s like lots of different countries all over. Many of those countries are doing a phenomenal job. They’re really flat and I think that’s what you meant.
<02:01:12>
I don’t know. I don’t want to speak for her. <crosstalk 02:01:13> But that’s what I understood she meant. Yeah, please.
Reporter 3: <02:01:17>
I have a question about that though because Coronavirus is present in all 50 States. Before, when you implored mayors and governors to be serious about this, you said once it shows up, mitigation efforts are too late. So, how do you then square that with this notion that some states are doing well? I mean, the virus doesn’t abide by United States laws.
<02:01:35>
Because some states they stay in better, they’re not touching, whatever it is. They’re not going out. They’re not in groups and some states are not probably as good for whatever reason, or they also live a lot closer. New York is very dense, and California is pretty dense too and they’ve got a very good record going so far. We hope it doesn’t spike up, but it’s very flat. We have states that are doing incredibly well. When I looked at some of them, I looked at some states that I would’ve thought maybe wouldn’t have done as well, and they’re really flatlined. Hope they stay that way. I hope they stay that way. <crosstalk 02:02:11>
Reporter 6: <02:02:12>
Sir, isn’t that the point, that you want those states to stay flatlined?
<02:02:15>
I want them. That’s what I’m saying. No. But when Debra mentioned about Italy and our country, she wasn’t referring to our country. She was referring to one state.
Reporter 3: <02:02:25>
She’s encouraging people to do a better job of following these social distancing measures. That’s what I’m understanding.
<02:02:32>
Okay, so my understanding … I’m going to let her say it, but I think that everybody would have to be thrilled with the way most States are doing. Thrilled.
Reporter 7: <02:02:41>
I don’t think she said … is that what you meant?
<02:02:43>
The flatline states, states that have almost no bump. I mean, I would think … now, then you others where for whatever reason, they’re higher. That’s different, but you can’t condemn people living in a flatliner with people living in something where there’s the big bump or the bigger bump or more akin to Italy where they have some very unique problems. In all fairness to Italy, they have some very unique problems. But if you’d like to come up and-
Reporter 7: <02:03:09>
So, how many flatline do we have and how many-
<02:03:12>
A lot of them.
Reporter 7: <02:03:13>
How many do we have?
<02:04:46>
That’s exactly … I think that’s perfect.
<02:06:35>
So, I just want to say, many states have started low and slow and then they stayed at a good level. Some really stayed at a great level. Louisiana’s an example. It was low and slow, and they were looking great. I was watching it because it’s a place people go to with Mardi Gras, which is an interesting point because after Mardi Gras it was low and then all of a sudden it went up very rapidly and now it’s one of our true hotspots. Certain areas of Michigan. Detroit looked like it was doing pretty good and then all of a sudden it went up. So, you have that too. But I’ll tell you what, we have states that have been really incredible in the fact that they have kept so low. You haven’t seen the bump and I hope you don’t. I hope you don’t.
<02:07:27>
And you have a couple that, for a lot of different reasons, and that’s not to blame anybody, but they are at a higher level. But very few. I think, Deborah, I mean, I may say, I think most people have actually followed the presidential you can call them whatever you want. I would never use the word dictates because if I used that word I would be in such trouble. In fact, you’ll put me in trouble just that I even mentioned the thought of it. But we make a recommendation and I think they’ve done a good job. Maybe they started a little later, but maybe they’re also more difficult states. But we’ve done I think on average really phenomenally as a country. I think we’ve done phenomenally because when you looked at that graph the other day, I don’t know if you saw it, I assume you saw it.
<02:08:11>
Everybody in the world saw it, but you look at all those lines on the bottom, one color after another, all different representing different states. It’s all crowded at the bottom. And then you had two that were up. I don’t know, almost every one of them was down low, very low. So, there were a lot of people listening and I just want it clear because I don’t need headlines tomorrow. Neither does the country because I don’t want this country working so hard and then have press, in this case, may be misinterpret something because when I heard it, I was surprised at first too. But I understood what Deborah meant. Because I think it’s very important for you to be accurate. One other thing, just a quick thing. So, what I found is when governors called me, I think in every case they’ve always been so nice, so nice and I’ve seen them and heard them say “Thank you, very much.”
<02:09:08>
“You have done a great job, a fantastic job in one case. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.” Then I’ll see the governor, usually of the opposite party in almost all cases except maybe one, but in almost all cases they’re very generous. They’re very nice. They thank me, everything’s great. We’re doing a great job. And then I’ll see him on television and it’s like a different person. And I realize there are some people, because of politics, that if they say, “We want a thousand ventilators” and I’ll say, “No, Jim. I want to give you 5,000 ventilators.”
<02:09:42>
They’ll say, “Thank you. You are the greatest president that’s ever lived.” And then I’ll see them quoted in a paper or see them on a show and they’ll say, “The president didn’t come through for me. I’m very disappointed in the president.” And we have a lot of that. They’re very happy when they talk to me, Then I see them. But there are some people, if they asked for 500 of something and if I gave him 5,000, you’ll say, “How’s the president doing?” “Well, we don’t like the job.” To my face they’re very nice. But, then sometimes, I guess they assume I don’t watch them or something, but I watch very closely. Yeah, please.
Reporter 8: <02:10:17>
Mr. President. One especially vulnerable population is the prison population and, especially with Jared here, I wondered if you could address what the federal government is doing to protect inmates?
<02:10:27>
Well, there’s vulnerable and then there’s close together. I can’t tell you about age, but a lot of young people in prison. Some people, some states, I have not done that at all, but some states are letting people out of prison. Some people are getting out that are very serious criminals in some states, and I don’t like that. I don’t like it. But it’s a city or state thing, in certain cases, as you know. I think, maybe Philadelphia comes to mind. So, we’ll have to see what’s going on. We don’t like it. The people don’t like it. And we’re looking in to see if I have the right to stop it in some cases. Okay?
Reporter 9: <02:11:08>
Mr. President, 6.6 million Americans filed for unemployment last week. We haven’t heard of you talk a lot today about what they’re going through.
<02:11:16>
Oh, I think it’s terrible.
Reporter 9: <02:11:16>
So, what’s your message to them?
<02:11:19>
I think it’s terrible. So, look, four weeks ago we had the greatest economy in the history of the world. The greatest in the world. Greatest in the history of the world. We had the most jobs ever in the history of the United States. Almost 160 million jobs. Right? And then one day, I get a call from Deborah who’s fantastic and from Dr. Fauci and he said, and she said, “We have a problem.” I said, “What’s the problem?” And they said, “We may have to close it up.” I said, “Close what up?” They said, “Close up the country.” I said, “What’s that all about?” And we discussed today and probably not since 1917, came to that conclusion, and she is a fantastic person, a brilliant person, and this is what she knows. I said, “Has it ever been this bad?” And I think I can represent that you said no. And part of it is it’s a contagion.
<02:12:20>
It’s so contagious. It’s like if you sneeze, I probably get it. Whoever heard of a thing like that? And this very talented reporter is bailing out. He’s out of here. I don’t blame you, but it’s a very contagious thing, probably the likes of which we’ve never seen in terms of that. But 1917, so that’s over a hundred years ago. But it’s been written about many, many times. That was a horrible … whether it was 75 or 100 million people, I’ve heard from 50 to 75 I’ve heard 75 to 100, but it was tens of millions of people. Now, we have the advantage of communication. This could have been just as bad. I mean, here we can read on the internet, we can see what to do, we can have these meetings, they can watch on television, which they do. A lot of people are watching. A lot of people are watching, and they say, “Gee, social distancing.”
<02:13:15>
But in 1917 they didn’t have that option. They didn’t know what to do. They just noticed people were dying all over the place. Think of it. 75 to 100 million people died. A lot of people in this country died. To me, it’s a great question, how come more people didn’t die in this country? And they say it actually started in this country and went to Europe. I mean, we lost a lot of people, but relatively we lost very few compared to Europe. So, this is a terrible thing that happened and what’s happening now with people in jobs. So, think of the position I’m in. We have built all together, everybody, not me, everybody, the greatest economy in history, and all of a sudden people come in that we respect, that we know, and here’s the thing, they were right. Everybody questioned it for a while.
<02:14:08>
Not everybody, but a good portion questioned it. They said, “Let’s keep it open. Let’s ride it.” If we did that, you saw the other graph, and whether it’s true or almost true or maybe not true enough, the number was 2.2 million people would’ve died. 2.2 million people would’ve died in a short period of time. In fact, the graph could have been even shorter. I always noticed that horrible one where it goes high, it actually comes down a little bit faster. It might’ve been over faster, and you would have lost 2.2 million people. So, they come in and they say, “We have to close up the country.” And I say, “You know what that does to the fabric of this country?” To people that had great jobs, great family, no problems with money? Their 401k, everything is perfect. Then all of a sudden, they go from that to having no job in one day they never even thought of it and then you see 6 million people unemployed.
<02:15:05>
Unemployment numbers get released and you see 6 million people and it’s an artificial closing. It’s not like we have a massive recession or worse. It’s artificial because we turned it off. Think of what we’re doing. We’re saying, “Don’t go to work and we’ll pay you.” Everything’s the opposite. It was always “Go to work and make a lot of money and do well and the American dream.” Because of a hidden enemy we’re saying, “Don’t go to work and we’re going to pay you.” Look at the money, $2 trillion and we will probably do more. I think infrastructure would be a fantastic thing to do. You want to get the restaurants back. You give deductibility. You understand what that is. You give deductibility for businesses where they go, and they use the restaurants. The restaurants will be bigger and better than they were before.
<02:15:54>
People don’t know, a lot of restaurants closed when they ended deductibility and then they started doing well, but they had fewer restaurants. But the boom of the restaurants is when they had deductibility, where corporations could use them. And entertainment, that was a great thing, but they closed it and then they closed it again and it wasn’t the same. But you want to get them back. You do that. But infrastructure, we borrow our money now at zero. If we were paying 5%, 4%, 3% it’s a different ball game. We can borrow long-term for zero. Literally zero. You know that because we’re considered the safe investment all over the world. They want money in the United States. That’s where they want the money. So, I know better than anybody. I know what they’re going through and it’s horrible, but you know what I want to do?
<02:16:45>
I want to be able to get them back fast. When this is over, it’s going to be a day we’re going to celebrate because everyone’s going to go to work and I think we’re going to have boom times. I think it’s going to be great, and we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned about borders; we’ve learned about reliance on other countries. We’ve learned so much that I think we really have a chance to be bigger and better and stronger, and I think it’s going to come back very quickly, but first we have to defeat this enemy, so we will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much.
