<00:31>
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
<00:41>
This is a holy week when religious believers across the nation will observe Passover, Good Friday, and Easter. Millions of Jewish families begin Passover at sundown tonight, a sacred unbroken tradition that traces back to the ancient land of Egypt. And on Sunday, we celebrate our beautiful, wonderful Easter, which we all look forward to. We’re going to have many Easters together in churches in the future.
<01:13>
We’re getting closer. You see the numbers. We’re getting much closer to getting our country back to the way it was. We have now an extra two countries that have been attacked, 184. They’re being attacked as we speak, but we’ll all win. At some point, we’re going to all win. We’re going to do it sooner than people think.
<01:35>
Earlier today, I spoke with 10,000 of America’s faith leaders to thank them for raising the spirits of our people during these very difficult days. While we may be physically apart, we can use this time to pray, to reflect, and to focus on our personal relationship with God.
<01:56>
I also spoke with more than 3,000 mayors, county commissioners, and state and tribal leaders to provide an update on our administration’s ongoing drive to beat the virus, to crush the virus, and that’s happening. It’s happening, I think, if you look, a little bit more quickly than people thought, maybe a lot more quickly, I hope. It’s something that all over the world we’re watching, but people are watching us and seeing what we’re doing, and they’re very impressed. We’re dealing with many countries right now, many, many countries, and we’re giving them whatever information we’re able to glean.
<02:38>
I just spoke with the representatives of the UK, and I think that their great prime minister is doing much better today, or at least better. Certainly, he’s had a tough bout, and he’s still going through a tough time, but he seems to be doing better. That’s good. We send our regards to Boris and his family and his friends, all of the people that really love him. He’s become a very popular, before this happened, became a very popular prime minister. He’s doing an excellent job. He loves their country. He loves our country. We appreciate everything he’s done, and hopefully he’s going to be okay.
<03:21>
Speaking of great people and people that have done a fantastic job, I have Secretary of State Mike Pompeo with us, and I’d like to ask Mike to say a few words. Then I think what we’ll do, in order to get him back to the State Department, we’ll take some questions. We’ll then go on with the rest of what I’m going to say, then we’ll take some questions after that, and then Vice President Pence will take over. Mike Pompeo, please?
<06:28>
Okay, good. Thanks, Mike. Can you stick for a little while?
<06:31>
We’ll see if anybody has any questions for the Secretary of State. Anybody? Please.
<09:58>
Go ahead <crosstalk 00:09:59>.
<10:23>
Well, you could just say we held.
<11:35>
Jeff?
<14:13>
Go ahead, please.
<14:50>
Let’s save it. Can we save it?
<14:56>
He’s a busy man.
<15:39>
Okay. Thank you, Mike. Thank you.
<15:43>
Appreciate it. Thanks.
<27:03>
… Owns the small businesses. It’s a great thing to see, it’s turned out to be more successful and more productive than anybody would have thought. But Democrats and Republicans are coming together to get that job done. That’s a very important job, in recent days and days ahead will restore America’s health and economic might, but also dimensions of our national strength will be brought together I think stronger than… I think we have a chance to be stronger than ever before. We’ve learned a lot. And we have tremendous stimulus now. Tremendous stimulus. And we’re going for more. Hopefully we’ll be doing an infrastructure bill so we can rebuild our roads and highways and bridges and tunnels and all of the things that we should be doing for our country.
<27:46>
We’re going to rebuild our country, not other countries where they don’t even appreciate it. As our citizens persevere through this present challenge we’re renewing American unity, and we’re replenishing American will, and we are witnessing new American valor each and every day. We see it every day. The daring and determination of our people in this crisis reminds us that no matter how hard it gets, no matter what obstacles we must overcome, Americans will keep on fighting to victory and we will secure the glorious future that our citizens so richly deserve, especially after going through this nightmare, this evil beast. So we’re getting very close and hopefully it’s on the other side, and it will end soon, and I think it will. And I just think that the people of this country are fantastic. So we’ll take a few questions and then Vice President will take over. Please, go ahead. Please.
<29:02>
Well, when I learned about the gravity of it was sometime just prior to closing the country to China. And when we closed up the flights coming in from China and various other elements. And then as you know, we closed up to Europe. So I don’t know exactly, but I’d like to see the information. Yeah. Please, please.
<29:24>
Yep. So do I. More than anybody.
<29:33>
I think we can say that we have to be on that downside of that slope and heading to a very strong direction that this thing has gone. And we could do it in phases. We can go to some areas which you know, some areas are much less effective than others. But it would be nice to be able to open with a big bang and open up our country or certainly most of our country. And I think we’re going to do that soon. You look at what’s happening. I would say we’re ahead of schedule now. You hate to say it too loudly, because all of a sudden things don’t happen. But I think we will be sooner rather than later. But we’ll be sitting down with the professionals. We’ll be sitting down with many different people and making a determination and those meetings will start taking place fairly soon.
<30:18>
Yeah, would rely very heavily on them. Yeah.
<30:26>
Yeah, we’re putting in very heavy testing systems. We have the best testing systems. And again, don’t forget when we look at cases, I’m looking at some… I’m not going to insult anybody. I’m not going to insult any country. But I’m looking at countries that are showing less cases than us. That’s testing. We’re testing more than anybody. And you saw exponentially more than anybody by far. And our testing’s become, I think it’ll end up being a big strength. And in fact, the other countries, other countries that the media talked about, are now calling us for what are we doing, and how are we doing it so quickly, and where are we getting these tests? Because our tests are really good now. They’ve been proven to be very accurate. Yes, please.
<31:23>
It’s ridiculous. I agree. It’s ridiculous. I think it’s the highest paid government. Long before I got here. You said Tennessee Valley Authority, right? Has to be the highest paid man in any government. Makes approximately $8 or $9 million. I don’t know the gentleman, but he’s got a heck of a job. He gets paid a lot of money. He’s been there for a long while, hasn’t he?
<31:49>
That’s a separate. Yeah, that’s separate, but I’m talking about we just have some new people going on the board, I know. But as you know, that’s a quasi public agency and whoever the head of the agency is, that person makes a lot of money.
<32:07>
Which is an amazing thing. And when do we want them to do something, they’re not there for us. That’s not good. That’s not good.
<32:15>
They’ve been there for a long time. That’s been a story for a long time.
<32:23>
Yep. Reducing it by a lot.
<32:27>
Only the greatest job in the history of government though, most certainly if you’re into money. Tennessee Valley Authority. It’s right. Go ahead. I’ve been waiting for somebody to ask me about that. It’s been bothering me for a long time to go ahead.
<33:06>
Which son? It must be Don.
<33:08>
I had a feeling it was done. Is that what he said? I don’t know. I know nothing about it. His 22 years? For what? What did he do?
<33:21>
You think he didn’t do it? Are you on his side? Are you recommending a pardon?
<33:27>
As a reporter, you’re not allowed to do that. You’d be criticized by these. Would you recommend a pardon?
<33:35>
I don’t think you would. Go ahead. Do you have a question?
<33:37>
I’ll take a look. Is that Joe Exotic? That’s Joe Exotic?
<34:04>
Yeah. My impression Jim, is those were the numbers that were set. And they were set as an expectation from quite a while ago. I think we’re just doing much better than those numbers. If either of you would like to talk about that, it’s a fair question. Do you want to come up, Deborah?
<36:32>
Yeah, I’m going to do that. I’m going to ask Bob to come up just for a second, Director. I think that’s it. They have done it. Everybody has done everybody a great job. So those were original projections. And we don’t want to say anything about beating it yet, but I think we will have a very good chance to beat and I’m very substantial about this.
<37:42>
I don’t remember that. I’ve now seen the memo. I saw it. Peter sends a lot of memos. I didn’t see the memo. As you know, World Health was saying that was not correct because at the time they called it wrong. But I didn’t see the memo. But I acted as quickly as… People were shocked that I acted so quickly and everybody thought I was wrong because I did act so quickly as you know, with respect to closing the borders. With respect not only to China, but with Europe, I closed the borders. And I think that was very important. But no, I didn’t see the memo at the time, but I have seen it since. Yeah, please. Wait a minute, let me do a couple of others. We’ll go back.
<38:23>
I agree with that.
<38:37>
Well, I think when you say more body bags, I think we would have done… And he would have been much better serving the people that he’s supposed to serve if they gave a correct analysis. I mean everything was, I said, China-centric. Everything was going to be fine. No human to human, keep the borders open. He wanted me to keep the borders open. I closed the borders despite him. And that was a hard decision to make at the time. We’re all together. We made a decision against the World Health Organization. So when he says politicizing, he’s politicizing. That shouldn’t be. But look, we spend $450 billion, $452 billion, almost $500 billion last year. Hundreds of billions in previous years. And they got to do better than that. They got to do better. When you talk about politics, I can’t believe he’s talking about politics. When look at the relationship they have to China. So China spends $42 million, we spend $450 million, and everything seems to be China’s way. That’s not right. It’s not fair to us, and honestly it’s not fair to the world. Okay question in the back. Yeah.
<40:07>
Yeah, I have never heard about it. It doesn’t sound like a bad idea actually, but I have not heard about that.
<40:13>
I don’t know if I’d be okay. I have to see it. But it sounds very scientific and it sounds like it could be good based on tracking, but it also has to do with rights and lots of different constitutional questions. I have not heard that at all.
<40:36>
FISA abuse, which I was the one abused. And a couple of other people, in all fairness. No, I don’t know anything about it. I haven’t heard it. I mean, I’ll speak to them. I don’t think so. They would have told me. I would’ve known about it. Please.
<40:58>
In Nevada?
<41:08>
You mean because of the number of employees?
<41:12>
And yet they’re small businesses.
<41:19>
Well, I could look at that. I could look. It’s a great state and I will take a look at that strongly. Are you talking only the smaller casinos?
<41:27>
Yeah, I’ll take a look at that. Fine. I don’t mind that. Please. Yeah, we’ll take a look. Yeah, we haven’t heard, nobody’s told me about it, but I’ll look at it. It’s a great state. They do a great job, so I’m going to look at it very strongly. I understand what they mean. Please.
<41:56>
Well, when you say they don’t listen, I think they are going to listen. They want to go back. Everybody wants to, they’re going stir crazy. They’ve been in those houses and those apartments and I mean, they’ve done a great job. Again, when you look, the question was just asked about how are we doing compared to projections. Those were just original projections. The big projection being 2.2 million people would die if we did nothing. That was another decision we made, close it up. That was a big decision that we made.
<42:25>
Two very smart people walked into my office and they said, “Listen, these are your alternatives,” and that was a projection of I guess 1.5 to 2.2 million people would die if We didn’t close it up. That’s a lot of people. So if we do a number that’s tremendously smaller than that, now, if we did close it up, the numbers got to 100 to 220 million people. So if we can stay substantially under the 100, which was the original projection, I think we all did a very good job. Even though it’s a lot of people. Say it.
<43:01>
Okay, well right now we’re, I mean we’re doing well in terms of the numbers. I can’t tell you in terms of the date. We don’t want to go down, and then we can start going up if we’re not careful. So we have to be careful. As far as a distancing, social distancing, and other things, certainly for a while. At some point, that’s going away. We’ll be able to sit next to each other and we have all our lives. This is a very unique thing. This has not happened, anything like this of this magnitude, since 1917, 1918. The Great Pandemic. That was something.
<43:37>
But yeah, no, people want to sit next to each other at restaurants. They want to sit next to each other like normal at a football game, baseball game, basketball game, hockey game. No, we want to go back to life. Now, the first period of time, maybe we’ll go a little bit slower and maybe we’ll be talking about distancing. But at some point, we expect to be back like it was before. And hopefully it’ll never happen. Hopefully if it does happen, it’s going to be in a hundred years from now. The last one, 1917. That’s something, that’s a long time ago. And that was a horrible thing. Jim, go ahead.
<44:52>
Sure. Well, what happened-
<44:58>
I think there’s a lot of evidence, but we’ll provide you with some. Okay. And there’s evidence that’s being compiled just like it’s being compiled in the state of California, where they settled with judicial watch saying that a million people should not have been voting and you saw that. Did you? Wait, excuse me. Well, I’m just telling you. I’m telling you, in California, in the great state of California, they settled and we could have gone a lot further. Judicial watch settled where they agree that a million people should not have voted where they were 115 years old, and lots of things, and people were voting in that place.
<45:33>
What I see in every one of those states that you mentioned, is a state that happens to be won by the Democrats. And if you have a position like me where it’s registered, you’re here, and we’re voting someplace where I’m not, I haven’t left the White House in I guess months other than to ask a ship to wave it goodbye to New York, which by the way is now being used for the purpose that we’re talking about, which a lot of people wanted. Wait a minute.
<46:08>
It certainly hasn’t. But if you’re a senior citizen and if you’re somebody that needs it, I’m all for it. But they have to be very careful. Because you know the things with bundling and all of the things that are happening with votes by mail where thousands of votes have gathered, and I’m not going to say which party does it, but thousands of votes have gathered, and they come in and they’re dumped in a location. And then all of a sudden you lose elections that you think you’re going to win. I won’t stand for it.
<46:38>
Well, we’re going to find out about the proof because you’re going to see what’s going on. And I’m not going to stand for it. Our voting system, first of all, we should have voter ID. When you vote, you should have voter ID. And if you send something in, you should be sure as a state and as a country, you should be sure that that vote is meaningful, and it’s not just made fraudulently. Because there’s a lot of fraudulent voting going on in this country. This country should have voter ID. Okay, let’s do another one. Go, please.
<47:25>
Well, I think it’s very systematic. Yeah. We’re distributing the hydroxy all through the country. It’s being distributed in large amounts. We have it coming in now. We were up to 29 million, doses then we went to, 30 million doses. But we have it coming in all throughout the country. And much of it’s being distributed. And in fact, it’ll start down what we have in our stockpile. And again, I hope it works. Again, I’m not a doctor as you possibly have found out. I’m not a doctor, but I’m a person with common sense. And we’ve had some very good results over the course, including a woman who just reported it two days ago. Yes.
<48:09>
No, we’re looking to provide it in many different ways. In many ways, where in certain instances, we’ve been asked, in the case of Michigan, we’ve been asked who the Governor of Michigan would like to, I think she’s become a big fan of it as a medication, as something that’s going to help with this horrible virus. And we’re delivering it to the governments of various states when they ask. So certain states are asking, certain governments are asking, and we’re delivering it directly to the government. Yeah, please.
<48:47>
Good. Where are you from? Where are you from?
<49:11>
Medical goods?
<49:14>
That doesn’t bother me.
<49:17>
If they’re sending medical goods to Iran, it doesn’t bother me. No.
<49:33>
I did see that today. Well, he didn’t really drop out. What about his delegates? I mean, he said he’s going to keep his delegates and which is sort of interesting. He’s going to keep his delegates and he’d like to get more. Now, is he dropping out or not? That’s not dropping out. When you keep your delegates and then you want more delegates before you get to the convention, that’s a weird deal going on there. I don’t know what’s happening. And I don’t know why President Obama hasn’t supported Joe Biden a long time ago. There’s something he feels is wrong. Why isn’t… He’ll come out, I’m sure he’s going to come out at some point because he certainly doesn’t want to see me for four more years. We think a little bit differently. You know what? I’ll tell you it, it does amaze me that President Obama hasn’t supported sleepy Joe.
<50:21>
It just hasn’t happened. When’s it going to happen? When is it going to happen? Why is it? He knows something that you don’t know, that I think I know, but you don’t know. So it’ll be interesting. But with Bernie, I saw his a standard fair today. I watched, and I hope that a lot of Bernie Sanders people, just like they did last time, we got a tremendous percentage of Bernie people. And I think they voted for me largely because of trade. Because Bernie and I agree on trade. We agree that the United States has been ripped off by virtually every country they do business with. The difference is, I’ve done a lot about it, and I’m doing more about it. And we’ve made incredible trade deals including USMCA, the deal with China. and then all of a sudden that gets disturbed by this virus situation. But China has to spend almost $250 billion on purchasing our products, $40 to $50 billion with our farmers, and the Bernie Sanders people are big believers on what I’m saying on trade.
<51:23>
And I got a lot of them in the last election that surprised people, but it didn’t surprise me. Now, those are great people, they’re great people. But look, I’m looking at Bernie Sanders. I watched this morning. And I said, “What is that all about?” Like you said, the delegates, the delegates. He’s not giving up his delegates. He’s keeping them, and he said he wants to get more of them. And I think he’s doing it to negotiate, I assume, but I don’t know. That’s a hard thing to do. Yeah. Jeff, go ahead.
<52:01>
Oh, that’s good. Finally, somebody knows something when they ask a question.
<52:13>
I don’t think… Look, we already cut. We’re very market-oriented. If you look at Texas, and if you look at North Dakota, and if you look at some of our states that do this very well, they’ve already cut way back. They cut back automatically. But in the case of Russia, in the case of Saudi Arabia, they increased production at a time when you didn’t need it, and then they got hit by the virus, which knocked out 40% of the market. And now, they’re flooded with oil.
<52:38>
Look, I just say this. You have two countries that are getting hurt very badly. Russia’s getting hurt. That’s their primary source, and Saudi Arabia that’s definitely their primary source. And it doesn’t make sense that they flooded the market. For whatever reason, they did that for themselves. It’s a argument that they had, and I think they’ll straighten it out. A lot of progress has been made over the last week, and it’ll be interesting to see what comes out of OPEC tomorrow. But OPEC, obviously… For many years, I used to think OPEC was very unfair.
<53:10>
I hated OPEC. You want to know the truth? I hated it. Because it was a fix, but somewhere along the line, that broke down and it went the opposite way. And we have a tremendously powerful energy industry in this country now. Number one in the world, and I don’t want those jobs being lost.
<53:31>
We’ll see. I have a lot of options. Please. A lot of good options, Jeff. Beauties. I might like it even more. Now, you can go watch. Let’s see what happens. Hopefully they can make a deal. Let’s go.
<54:03>
You…
<54:03>
You said adjusted back down 61,000, what was adjusted back?
<54:13>
Well, it’s still a big number, right? 61, that’s a big number. Go ahead.
<54:24>
I had a date and I thought it was a very aspirational date. It’s turning out to be very interesting because a lot of good things are happening by Easter, but I had a very aspirational date. I didn’t think we could make it. I didn’t say we would do it by Easter, but I said, “Well, wouldn’t that be great to shoot for Easter? That would be a great day. Beautiful day. Very important day to a lot of people like me and some of you in the room, maybe all of you in the room, frankly. But Easter is a very important day. So, aspirationally, I said, “Let’s see if we can do it at Easter,” but I said it would be very tough and I was criticized for that so I don’t like giving dates and that wasn’t a date. That was just an aspiration. That would have been incredible.
<55:08>
But I don’t think we’re going to be very far behind and some of these models are looking like Easter is going to be a very important date anyway because of the curve. It’s hitting the top and it’s starting to come down and one person said Easter is looking like a good time. So, a good time for that, for heading down. So, we’ll see what happens. Look, there’s no reason to do that. We have a lot of good things happening. When I spoke to the governor of Louisiana today, he said, “Tony, they need far less beds than <inaudible 00:55:36>.” I said, “Well, good because we’re building 1000 room additional. We built them 1000 beds and now we’re building another 1000. And I said, “Listen, is there a way that we don’t build, I don’t want to build them if they don’t need them.” In New York, the Javits isn’t too heavily used, it’s ready to go.
<55:52>
2,900 beds, plus we now have the ship set for COVID, if they want to use it. And we’re using it for governor Murphy in New Jersey. So, we’ll see what happens but the numbers are coming way down. The ventilators, we’re all set. We have a lot to go if we want, but I’m not getting calls where they need ventilators anymore. So, we were right on those ventilators. I’d love to have additional ventilators for some of the countries that are our allies and our friends. And even if they’re not our allies and our friends, you’re saving human lives. But I’d love to see if we had some… We’re making a lot of ventilators right now. They take a while to make and they’re very expensive and they’re very complex to make, but I’d love to be able to help other countries once we’re taken care of.
<56:45>
But I just sent 100 ventilators to Colorado and that was great. A senator there who’s a terrific Senator, Cory Gardner and he called me last night. He said, “Could you get 100 ventilators for Colorado?” And we just sent them out and there’ll be there very shortly. But it looks like we’re in great shape from the bed standpoint, it looks like we’re in great shape from the ventilator standpoint. And you just heard, I ordered 500 million masks, N95s and others and surgical, but we ordered 500 million masks, 300 and 200, and they’re going to be here very shortly. So, we’re really in great shape and we started off with an empty cupboard. So, I’m going to leave the vice president and his group to handle it and I will see you probably tomorrow. Okay. Thank you much.
