<00:05>
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. So America continues to wage all out war to defeat the virus, this horrible, horrible virus. You see how terrible it is, especially when you look at the numbers from yesterday. And we explained why we’re extending our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread for 30 days. Together we have the power to save countless lives. We’re attacking the virus in every front with social distancing, economic support for our workers, rapid medical intervention, and very serious innovation and banning dangerous foreign travel that threatens the health of our people. And we did that early, far earlier than anyone would have thought and way ahead of anybody else. In this time of need, I know that every American will do their patriotic duty and help us to achieve a total victory. As governments and nations focus on the coronavirus, there’s a growing threat that cartels, criminals, terrorists, and other maligned actors will try to exploit the situation for their own gain. And we must not let that happen. We will never let that happen.
<01:32>
Today, the United States is launching enhanced counter narcotics operations in the Western hemisphere to protect the American people from the deadly scourge of illegal narcotics. We must not let the drug cartels exploit the pandemic to threaten American lives. In cooperation with the 22 partner nations, U.S. Southern Command will increase surveillance, disruption and seizures of drug shipments and provide additional support for eradication efforts which are going on right now at a record pace. We’re deploying additional Navy destroyers, combat ships, aircraft and helicopters, Coast Guard cutters and Air Force surveillance aircraft, doubling our capabilities in the region. Very importantly, our forces are fully equipped with personnel protective equipment and we’ve taken additional safety measures to ensure our troops remain healthy. Secretary Mark Esper, Attorney General Bill Barr, National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien will provide more details. In addition, I’m going to have General Milley, who’s done an incredible job so many ways, say a few words and also with us our Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Gilday, who you know, I think you know and Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Schultz.
<03:04>
So I’m going to ask Mark to start and then we can go and after that we’re going to take questions as it pertains to this and then we’ll go on to phase two, which is the virus itself. Okay, thank you, please, Mark.
<08:28>
Thank you General, thank you.
<16:07>
So do we have any questions on this? Because this group is going to go back to work, they’re going to leave.
<16:24>
Well, for a long time we’ve had a lot of drugs coming into our country and it’s not that it’s increased, we’ve probably got it down a little bit, but it’s still a tremendous number of families are being ruined, lives are being ruined. It’s an incredible thing, especially as you’re at this position, you would never believe it. I see things that nobody would believe. I see reports that nobody would believe. So I met with the group behind me, all of them, and we said, what do you think we can do? And they think they can interdict, they that think we can stop it before it gets to the shores and they’re coming from all over the place and we have incredibly talented people. So I think I’m going to let Mark just give him a little bit of an answer to that. But we just want to see if we can stop a good percentage of the drugs coming into our country.
<18:22>
<inaudible 00:18:22> didn’t do it for this reason, but it’ll also have an impact on the virus because we have people trying to get in, so not only drugs, but now we have a new phenomena. And that’s at least for the next hopefully short period of time, the virus, so we’ll be able to have an impact on that too. Please.
<18:47>
Well, because we’re focused on so many other parts of the country and even parts of the world. And all of a sudden, areas where we had it clamped down pretty tight, in all fairness, the wall is up to about 160 miles already. And any areas where we have that wall, it’s for the most part contiguous, we have fill-ins but we’re up to 161 miles exactly. And any place where you have that wall, other than walking around it on the edges, it’s stopping everybody cold. I mean, we’re stopping … Nobody’s seen anything like it, that’s how good it works. And the other side knew had worked that well. Everybody, because everybody was for it five years ago, all of a sudden they changed.
<19:27>
It’s having a tremendous impact. But we are now focused on so many different things because of what’s happened, because of this horrible, I say it’s a horrible phenomena that now we’ve got to focus on drugs and the drugs come in from different methods and we have the best people at sea anywhere in the world. So we’ll have a tremendous impact on drugs. But one of the other things, we’ll also have an impact we think on the virus. Yeah, please.
<20:34>
We really don’t know, how do we know whether they under reported or reported however they report. But we had a great call the other night. We’re working together on a lot of different things including trade. They’re buying a lot, they’re spending a lot of money and they’re giving it to our farmers. They’re paying our farmers for the product. So we’re going to continue that along. John, yeah.
<21:10>
I know what you’re saying, but we just have information that they were planning something and it’s very good information. It was led by Iran, not necessarily Iran, but by groups supported by Iran, but that to me is Iran. And we’re just saying, don’t do it, don’t do it, it would be a very bad thing for them if they did it.
<21:41>
I had a very powerful response by the way, that response knocked out five different places, but it also took out a lot of very bad people.
<21:52>
Well, that was a very big response, we knocked out a lot. We looked at … they had one side, we hit five big ones and ammunition sites. You saw what happened, and I won’t say how many people were killed, but some bad people were killed and a lot of them. That was a big response. But this response will be bigger, if they do something. Yeah and you had one, please.
<22:25>
We have not received that, but their numbers seem to be a little bit on the light side and I’m being nice when I say that, relative to what we witnessed and what was reported. But we discussed that with him, not so much the numbers, as what they did and how they’re doing. And we’re in constant communication with the … I mean, I would say the biggest communication is myself and President Xi. The relationship’s very good. Look, they will be spending when things even out, this is obviously a little bit of a hurdle what’s happened over the last month, but they’ll be spending $250 billion buying our product. $50 billion to the farmers alone, $200 billion to other things. They never did that before. So we have a great trade deal and we’d like to keep it. They’d like to keep it and the relationship is good. As to whether or not their numbers are accurate, I’m not an accountant from China.
<23:28>
No, because people just don’t know. People don’t know. Where did it come from? I think we all understand where it came from and President Xi understands that and we don’t have to make a big deal out of it. We didn’t like the fact that they said it came from our soldiers and they haven’t pursued that. And that a mid-level person said that, that was not a high level person. So I will always assume the best. I’ll assume the high level people didn’t know about it. It was a foolish statement. So look, the relationship with China is a good one and my relationship with him is really good. Please.
<24:27>
Oh, I don’t mind if they want … Yeah, I feel that is a positive if they’re helping other countries. We have 151 countries right now that are under siege by the virus, under siege. Some are doing really badly, they don’t know about social distancing. These are countries that aren’t highly sophisticated. They don’t have great communication to the rest of the world. I mean, they don’t know the things that we’re doing and that some others are able to do. And if China can help them, I’m all for it. I’m for all of us helping everybody. We’re soon going to have more ventilators than we need. We’re building thousands of ventilators right now. Now, it takes a period of time to build them. And again, nobody could have known a thing like this could happen. We’re building thousands. We will fairly soon be at a point where we have far more than we can use. Even after we stockpile for some future catastrophe, which we hope doesn’t happen. We’re going to be distributed them, the extras around the world. We’ll go to Italy, we’ll go to France, we’ll go to Spain, which is very hard hit.
<25:36>
No, no truth whatsoever.
<25:38>
I would love China and other countries if they have additional supplies, medical supplies to give to other countries. 151, why would I stop that? Wouldn’t it be terrible to stop it?
<25:56>
Whatever we have, whatever we’ve committed to, we commit, but we also need a lot for ourselves, so we’re very focused on that until we get over this. So obviously, we’re not going to be shipping too much until now. We do have excess of certain things and we don’t have enough of others. I just had a great talk today with Doug McMillan from Walmart and I gave him a very, very big order for gowns, for protective gear, for the doctors, for the nurses, for everything. And he’s actually very excited about it. He’s the biggest purchaser of this kind of thing. I mean of anything probably in the world. And he is very excited about it. And he said, what size? I said, it’s almost an unlimited.
<26:39>
When you look at these hospitals, the amount that they order, you almost say, how could they possibly use so much, whether it’s masks or the protective gear. But we are supplying a tremendous amount and we just ordered a lot from Walmart. And he’s taken this on personally. And I said, let it be shipped not to a warehouse directly to the side of the hospital or wherever they need it because we save a lot of-
<27:03>
Play to the side of the hospital or wherever they need it because we save a lot of time when we do that. So Walmart, in addition to many other companies and people, is now involved at the highest level. Please.
<27:24>
I don’t think we’re losing ground, but we don’t want to lose ground. That’s why we’re doing it. I don’t want to lose ground. It’s a big fight. I’ve seen many families where they’re wiped out because they lost a son or a daughter or a husband or a wife or whatever. Or all of them and we don’t want to lose ground and we are heavily focused on the virus, very heavily focused. After this goes into effect, which essentially is now, we will never have been so focused on drugs coming into our country as we are right now. And remember, as that wall gets bigger, that really helps us a lot. Really helps us a lot. Yeah, please.
<28:06>
Many of the governments are, and Mexico in particular is. In Mexico right now, we have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border keeping people out of our country and very few people are coming into our country right now and as we complete, again the wall, in addition to the 27,000 soldiers, it’s a very tough place to come into.
<28:30>
When I took over, people were coming in and they were bringing whatever they wanted. They were bringing drugs of any type and now, it’s very hard for them. And it will get harder and harder. But the president of Mexico is a great guy who has really helped us a lot. 27,000 Mexican soldiers. And you remember when I first took over, they had all of the caravans coming up with 10,000, 15,000 people in the caravans. They were marching through Mexico. That’s not happening anymore. Please, in the back?
<29:16>
I cannot tell you. I know the answer to that, I believe I do, but I cannot tell you that. We have information that would lead us to believe something very powerfully. But I cannot tell you the answer to that. Yeah, please? <inaudible 00:29:33>
<29:39>
Sure. They’re taking precautions and we are watching it very closely and if something bad happens, it’s going to be very painful for the other side.
<29:50>
They know about it. Yeah. They know.
<29:53>
We’ll see. We’ll see what happens, but we’re down to a small force now over the years. Since I got, we’ve been bringing smaller and smaller, and we’re down right now to a small number, but we have very powerful air power there. We have the big base. I mean, nobody can get near it. Nobody can even get near that. But we’ve really largely left, we’ve taken tremendous amounts out and we’ve deployed them elsewhere, including bringing some back home.
<30:34>
It’s social media, it gets out. I have hundreds of millions of people, number one on Facebook. Did you know I was number one on Facebook? I just found out I’m number one on Facebook. I thought that was very nice, for whatever it means. It represents something and when I can explain to people just don’t do it. It’s going to be bad if you do, it’s going to be really bad and they don’t need to do it, they have enough problems. Iran has enough problems without doing that. But we’ve been pulling back very substantially over the last year in Iraq. And so, that’s the way it is.
<31:16>
No, I’m just giving them a warning, it’s not a heads up. I’m giving them a warning. There’s a big difference. I’m saying if you do anything to hurt our troops, they’re going to pay a price. Now, as per the question, they did last time. We didn’t make a big deal out of it, but we hit very, very hard five massive major ammunition sites and a lot of people went with it. A lot of bad people. A lot of enemy went with it and we didn’t want to make a big deal out of it, but they paid a big price. They’ll pay a much bigger price this time if they do anything.
<31:55>
Sure.
<32:52>
Not too many people are going to be getting off at various ports anymore. Right? I think we-
<32:59>
We probably have decided on that.
<33:04>
Thank you. No, military people, on ships.
<34:06>
It is because we’re sending directly to hospitals. We don’t want it to come to the stockpile because then we have to take it after it arrives and bring it to various states and hospitals. One of the things, and again, we asked the states to do this as much as possible, many of the states have people that, whether it’s that or clothing, they make clothing, lots of clothing in many of the different states. We said, “See if you can get it directly from those manufacturers, make a deal, we’ll use the purchase act if we have to on them, if they won’t.” By the way, so many people are… The spirit is incredible, what they’re doing, but we’ve asked States where they have large manufacturers of different types of equipment to use those local factories, those local plants, and have it made directly, ship it right into the hospitals. We’re shipping things right in.
<34:54>
We have, as you know, almost 10,000 ventilators, which we need for flexibility. It’s a lot. It sounds like a lot, but it’s not because as you see on the board from yesterday, as this scourge, as this plague, as this virus moves, it moves very fast and we don’t know yet whether we’re going to need it in Louisiana, in New York, wherever it may be. So we’re ready for it. We’re totally ready for it. We’re going to be shipping out, we’ve already agreed to ship out over a thousand today to different sites, different locations, but we have to have the flexibility of moving the ventilators to where the virus is going. And we’ll be able to see that from charts a couple of days in advance. So right now, we have a nice pile of ventilators.
<35:39>
We have a lot more coming in. I think we have 11 companies making ventilators right now. Very good companies and they’re making them. You know about Ford, you know about General Motors, but we have a lot of companies making the ventilators right now. So, now the question is, when you make one, it doesn’t get made in 15 minutes. A mask can go quickly, a ventilator takes time to build. It’s very, very, as we discussed, it’s complex, it’s big, gets expensive, et cetera. But we’ll be able to move. We have great flexibility. John?
<36:17>
Yeah, I think if… Does anybody have any other questions for this great group of brilliant people? Yes, please?
<38:09>
We’re looking at doing two additional brand new hospital ships because these ships have really struck a blow, a very positive blow for what they’re doing. Going into Los Angeles, going into New York. So, we’re looking very seriously at building two additional ships of about the same size.
<38:32>
Well, building but we’re looking at building either two new ones or doing the renovation of another large ship. But this has really worked out well. So probably two brand new ones. <crosstalk 00:38:42>
<38:42>
Is this concerning the gentleman or do you want them… You don’t want them to get back to work and capture all those bad people?
<39:07>
Yeah, it can move very quickly. He’s a very capable man. We’re ready to move very quickly. As an example, in Louisiana, they have a very big hospital, so we’re looking to move very quickly. If we need them. Hopefully we won’t need them.
<39:20>
We’re going to find out pretty soon. We’re only going to know at the time it happens. We prepare for the worst. We are preparing for the worst. Unfortunately, that’s the way we have to look at it.
<39:43>
Well, as I understand, they’re not doing that on the ship. That’s the one thing they’re not doing outside of the COVID-19. They’re not doing that. The birth of a baby not being done on the ships.
<40:27>
One more for this group right here, please.
<42:15>
And I happen to think they want to make a deal. They just don’t know really how to start and they’ve been given some bad advice by former Secretary Kerry. It’s a very bad advice and I really think they want to make a deal, which is the Logan act, but we’d have to look at the Logan act. All you have to do is take a look. I think they’ve been given very bad advice by Secretary Kerry. I think they’re dying to make a deal. Look, their country’s in trouble. Their economics are shot. They’ve got a lot of bad things going. I think they’d like to make a deal. They can get it settled very quickly. No nuclear weapons. They can’t have nuclear weapons. It’s very simple. Okay, let’s let these folks get back to work. Is that okay? Thank you all very much.
<43:16>
So as we deploy our service members to combat both threats abroad, invisible enemy at home, earlier today I spoke to our nation’s incredible warriors and military families. Spent a long time of the phone with thousands and thousands of families that were hooked in. In order to stop the spread of the virus, some of these families have delayed planned moves to their next duty station and in other cases, military families are also waiting longer to welcome home the heroes from deployment. There’s a tremendous burden to bear and the families have been involved with us for so long and they are incredible. Without the families, they couldn’t be the great service members that they turned out to be. And they understand that. And I must say, protecting our military families is our top priority.
<44:07>
So, they understand what’s happening with respect to the virus and they understand it well. They’ve been fantastic. As commander in chief, I’m deeply grateful for our service members, their spouses and their children, whose love, devotion and sacrifice keeps America strong. To make, procure and deliver a crucial medical supplies to our doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers, my administration is leveraging the might of American manufacturing supply chains and innovators across the industry and across every industry and I just told you about Walmart and I could tell you about many more. Hanes is making protective gear and masks and we’re making tremendous amounts of product.
<44:54>
There’s never been anything like it. At the same time, I tell the governors, get it yourself if you can from your local companies and your local warehouses and factories. If you can do that, you should do that. Because of the actions that we’ve taken under the Defense Production Act, manufacturers and suppliers are sharing with FEMA and HHS their planned orders and allocations to states and to hospitals all over the region. This enables FEMA and HHS to work closely with states, local governments and private sector to allocate critical resources to highly impacted areas. Working together, we’re entirely focused on getting materials to the right place at the right time. So, we wanted to go directly to a hospital or directly to a certain state location and ideally, not even hit the state’s warehouses. If we can avoid the warehouses, it’s even better because they go directly into a hospital.
<45:50>
And one example of that is Ohio, the great state of Ohio. Senator Rob Portman called today and he asked for some help and got us… Did a tremendous job along with Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio, to facilitate a donation of 2.2 million gowns. 2.2 million gowns, think of what that is, 2.2 million to the strategic national stockpile from Ohio based Cardinal health. Cardinal health, we appreciate it and they’re making much more than that and different types of things.
<46:27>
We’re profoundly grateful for their contribution to protect the lives and safety of our healthcare professionals. Cardinal’s been working with us very well. FEMA and HHS formed a historic partnership with a private sector called Project Airbridge to bring supplies from other countries to the United States, including gloves, gowns, goggles and masks. These supplies will soon be distributed around the country. We have large cargo planes coming in from various parts of the world. Every day, new plane loads are landing in cities such as New York, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles.
<47:03>
Additional flights have been scheduled and we’re adding more and more and they’re actually coming in ahead of schedule. A lot of these flights are coming in with a lot of material ahead of schedule, The amount of usage, the amount of need is something that nobody’s ever seen before. We are getting so much, but no matter how much we get, they seem to use it up very quickly. More than 17,000 national guard personnel have now been activated all across our country. On Tuesday, the vice-president sent a letter to the governors calling on them to have plans in place to use the national guard to move medical supplies from warehouses to hospitals. So, a lot of times we’ll deliver supplies to our in a state, someplace in New York or in New Jersey or in Connecticut or wherever it may be, and they’re having difficulty getting it moved.
<47:57>
So what we’re doing, if we don’t bring it directly to the hospital, is we’ve authorized, it was a special authorization, the national guard to go into that facility and to move it for the state. So, the national guard is moving a lot of this equipment and medical supplies into a hospital or into an area where it’s needed by the state. As I said yesterday, difficult days are ahead for our nation. We’re going to have a couple of weeks, starting pretty much now, but especially a few days from now that are going to be horrific, but even in the most challenging of times, Americans do not despair. We do not give into fear. We pull together, we persevere and we overcome and we win. This week, every American heart is joined with the people of New York as they continue to bear the brunt of the pandemic. To every New Yorker, please know that we are by your side.
<48:56>
I love New York and every day we will be with you and it could very well be that others take over from New York. There are some areas, some hotspots in other States that are really exploding. Some, like Louisiana, were very late and then all of a sudden, it was like an explosion. In confronting this deadly plague, America’s armed with capabilities never dreamed of in past centuries. You look at 1917, the pandemic, it was something. Ravaged parts of this country, but ravaged Europe. Ravaged. They say 75 to 100 million, some people say 50 to 75 million people died. Think of that and that was a long time ago, over a hundred years ago. Many books written about the 1917, 1918 pandemic.
<49:58>
Our doctors are pouring over the virus. Genetic code, designing potential therapies and vaccines. Our planes are airlifting supplies from every corner of the earth. We’re watching other countries and they’re watching us to see whether or not, and who’s going to be the first to come up with a cure or a remedy of some kind or even a help, if it can help.
<50:21>
And of course, a vaccine. We’re looking very strongly for a vaccine. Johnson and Johnson is doing well and other companies are doing very well. But our most powerful asset, our greatest weapon in this effort is the spirit of our people and we want to keep away, keep a distance, keep away. If you don’t get it, it solves a lot of problems. If you don’t get it, and you can’t get it if you keep the distance. American spirit is unyielding, unwavering and unbreakable. It’s incredible. I’ve never seen anything like it. The way the people have pulled together, the unity of this country. So, together we’re going to win this war and the sooner we do, the sooner we can begin to rebuild and we’re ready to rebound and return to normal lives. We went from the best economy of the history of the world, the best economy that this country has ever seen, the best employment numbers we’ve ever had.
<51:18>
160 million people working, almost 160 million to a point where the professionals came to me and they say, “Sir, you’re going to have to shut the country down.” I said, ” What does that mean?” They said, “Sir, you’re going to have to shut it down.” And we’re going to build it up and I think we’re going to build it up fast. I think we’re going to have a tremendous rebound. There’s a great energy and a great pent up demand, and as you know, phase three was terrific and phase four, what passed in Congress, and phase four if that happens will be great.
<51:55>
I already proposed paying almost zero interest on bonds and I proposed a $2 trillion infrastructure plan, which would not only fix our roads and highways and bridges and tunnels and other things, but will also do something very good, it’s called jobs. I’m also asking that restaurants and entertainment facilities go back to the old deductibility from corporations, where corporations can buy, because otherwise a lot of these restaurants have got to have a hard time reopening. It takes a long time and they’re going to have a hard time reopening. So we’re asking for going back to deductibility where corporations can buy and corporations can go out to lunch and they pay and they get a deduction on what they eat. They get a deduction on the bill, and same with the entertainment. It’s going to bring a lot of people back. I think it’ll open up the restaurant business.
<52:48>
People forget that years ago they had that and when they got rid of it, when they ended it for whatever reason, but they ended it, many, many restaurants went out of business. Many entertainment type facilities went out of business and now’s a great time to bring it back. It was a terrible time for that business after they ended it, but this is a great time to bring it back. It’ll keep our restaurants going. In fact, I think the restaurant business will be actually bigger and better than it is right now. So, we’re also talking about that. And now, what we’ll do is we’ll take some questions and I see Mike is back with some of the folks. That’s great, Dr Fauci. And we will… Oh, how are you? Thank you Debra. So we’ll take some questions and we make progress day by day. Please?
<54:01>
I think the severity. I think also in looking at the…
Reporter 1: <54:03>
… thinking on that. Who are you aligning with on that?
<54:03>
I think the severity. I think, also, in looking at the way that the contagion… It is so contagious. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this where large groups of people, all of a sudden just by being in the presence of somebody having… The flu has never been like that. Flu is contagious, but nothing like we’ve ever seen here. Also the violence of it. If it hits the right person, and you know what those stats are. If it hits the right person, that person’s in deep trouble. And my friend was the right person.
Reporter 1: <54:33>
When you heard about that, with your friend, was that a turning point?
<54:36>
No. Not a turning point. Before then, I knew how… Because I’m seeing numbers that I’m seeing, statistics that are not exactly very good. But it hit him very hard. He’s strong. A very strong kind of a guy, but he’s older, he’s heavier, and he’s sort of central casting for what we’re talking about, and it hit him very hard. I’ve never seen anything like it. Yeah, <John 00:55:01> .
<55:26>
Well, we’re thinking about doing that. At the same time we just… to start these airlines and to start this whole thing over again is very tough, john. It’s very tough. And you have them going, in some cases, from hotspot to hotspot. If you notice, they’re usually hotspot to hotspot. Very few flights, New York to Miami, but we’re certainly looking at it, but once you do that, you really are clamping down an industry that is desperately needed.
<56:01>
Well, we’re going to.
<56:03>
That is a calculation that we’re looking at right now. We’re looking at it very strongly. Please.
Reporter 3: <56:07>
So let me follow up to that, Mr. President. Not every governor has issued a stay at home order. All of you have made it very clear how important it is to stay home, that we are in a dire situation here. And that’s how you stop the spread, is the staying home.
<56:22>
Yeah, sure.
Reporter 3: <56:22>
Why not take the power out of the hands of the governors, and you just issue a stay at home order for every state in this country?
<56:31>
Because states are different, and I understand that the Governor of Florida, great governor, Ron DeSantis issued one today, and that’s good, that’s great. But there are some states that are different. There are some States that don’t have much of a problem. There are some, well, they don’t have the problem. They don’t have thousands of people that are positive or thousands of people that even think they might have it or hundreds of people in some cases.
<56:58>
So you have to look at states. You have to give a little bit of flexibility. We have a state in the Midwest, or if Alaska as an example, doesn’t have a problem, it’s awfully tough to say close it down. So we have to have a little bit of flexibility. Look, we’re helping governors. We’re really here to help governors. They’re the front line of attack, and that includes in purchasing, by the way. We’re here, and we’re backing them up, and there’s never been a backup like we’ve given them. We’ve given them billions of dollars worth of things, medical supplies and ventilators, thousands and thousands of ventilators. We have thousands under construction right now. We have thousands ready to go in case they need it. There’s never been anything like this.
<57:43>
They’ve done, really, the people, have done incredibly. We’re building hospitals all over the country. We’re building hospitals right now at a rate that has never even been contemplated before. They’re mobile hospitals, but they’re really not mobile. They’re incredible structures, but we’re building many hospitals. Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, we just finished a massive hospital complex. And we also have medical centers built in New York. We’re building hospitals at the rate that this country has never done before. And hopefully it’s all going to work out.
Reporter 4: <58:20>
Thank you sir. Mr. President, I just want to make sure we’re clear, on the planes. Are you looking at just curtailing routes between certain hotspots or is it broadly?
<58:31>
We’re looking at the whole thing because we’re getting into a position now where we want to do that, we have to do that, and so we’re looking at the whole thing and we may have some recommendations.
Reporter 4: <58:41>
My second question on economics, just with oil, oil prices are very low. The Saudis have increased production. I know that you’ve spoken about liking low oil prices, but then there’s also the industry aspect-
<58:55>
From 1950, these are oil prices. And that’s when they had big dollars. Big, beautiful dollars.
Reporter 4: <59:00>
So do you advocate cuts? Do you advocate cuts to production? Do you…
<59:05>
Look, we have a great oil industry, and the oil industry is being ravaged. And, as you know, Russia, and I spoke to President Putin, we had a great call, Russia, Saudi Arabia. I spoke with the Crown Prince. We had a great call. But I think that they will work it out over the next few days. If you ask me, I think it’s too simple not to be able to. They both know what they have to do. So I think I have confidence in both that they’ll be able to work it out.
<59:34>
But it has ravaged an industry worldwide not here, I mean worldwide, the oil industry has been ravaged. So there was a lot of oil production to start off with, and then on top of it, it got hit with the virus, and business went down 35, 40% so that that business is a tough one. And they have ships all over the sea. I told you yesterday, all over the sea, massive tankers that they are using for storage. They go out, and they just sit there. There’s no place to go. They have massive amounts.
<01:00:07>
Now gasoline is going to be 99 cents a gallon and less. You know that. That’s already starting. It’s popping up, 99 cents. So that’s like giving a massive tax cut to people of our country when. We try and get the airlines going, if fuel is costing much less, it helps with getting the airlines, which is always a tough business, always has been a tough business. But with that being said, look, I want to get that industry back where it was. We were doing records in that industry, also. We want to get it back to where it was. So I think that Saudi Arabia, Russia, they’re negotiating, they’re talking, and I think they’ll come up with something.
<01:00:46>
I’m going to meet with the oil companies on Friday. I’m going to meet with the independent oil producers also on Friday or Saturday, maybe Sunday, but we’re having a lot of meetings on it. I think I know what to do to solve it, but if they’re unable to solve it, then I think I know what to do to solve it.
Reporter 4: <01:01:06>
Can you give us a glimpse-
<01:01:07>
We won’t mention it now, but it’s tough. I think I know what to do to solve it. We don’t want to lose our great oil companies. You know, we’re the number one producer of oil in the world, and a month ago when you said that it was great. Today when you say it, it’s not so meaningful. But I do believe there’s a way that that can be solved or pretty well solved. And I’d rather not do that.
<01:01:32>
I think that Russia and Saudi Arabia, at some point, they’re going to make a deal in the not too distant future because it’s very bad for Russia. It’s very bad for Saudi Arabia. It’s very bad. I mean, it’s bad for both, so I think they’re going to make a deal. You know, the free market is a wonderful thing. It’s amazing how it could work, but I think they’re going to make a deal. Yeah, please. Over there.
Reporter 5: <01:01:56>
Mr. President, a couple of questions. One for you, one for Mr. Wolf, if possible. Over 5 million immigrants in this country do pay taxes through their ID numbers, yet they will not receive any money in their stimulus package, and no undocumented immigrant will receive any aid from the government during this crisis. How do you suppose they survive during the COVID-19?
<01:02:19>
Well, when you’re saying undocumented, meaning they came in illegally, and a lot of people would say we have a lot of citizens right now that won’t be working. So what are you going to do? It’s a tough thing. It’s a very terrible… It’s a very sad question. I must be honest with you. But they came in illegally, and we have a lot of people that are citizens of our country that won’t be able to have jobs. Now, I do think, once we get rid of the virus, I think we’re going to have a boom economy.
<01:02:48>
I think it’s going to go up rather quickly, maybe very quickly and maybe slowly, but it’s going to go up and it’ll all come back. And I think it’s actually going to come back stronger than what it was because of the stimulus. But it’s a really a sad situation, and we are working on it. I will tell you, I’m not going to give you a hard and fast answer because I just want to tell you, it’s something I think about, and it’s something we’re working on. Please.
Reporter 5: <01:03:16>
<crosstalk 01:03:16> Mr. Wolf?
<01:03:16>
Go ahead.
Reporter 5: <01:03:16>
Thanks Mr. President. Question for Dr. Fauci. Looking beyond when we’re on the other side of this curve, are we looking at living with some sort of social distancing guidelines essentially until there’s treatment or a vaccine. For example, people looking forward to the summer talk about going to baseball games, going to concerts. We have political conventions over the summer. Are things like that possible or safe without a vaccine or a treatment in place?
<01:05:52>
He doesn’t need security. Everybody loves him.
Reporter 7: <01:05:53>
Can you follow up on testing Dr. Fauci?
<01:05:55>
<crosstalk 01:05:55> says that they would be in big trouble if they ever attack. You know, he was a great basketball player. Did anybody know that? He was a little on the short side for the NBA, but he was talented. I read this, he won a game that was unwinnable against a great team, and his whole team said, “We can’t beat this team.” And he went in and they won the game, right? That was a couple of years ago.
<01:06:15>
The head never changes. The attitude never changes.
<01:06:21>
Yes, please.
<01:06:23>
He does.
<01:12:33>
He did. He spoke to me.
Reporter 9: <01:12:34>
He has some loopholes in that-
<01:12:37>
That I don’t know. He spoke for me this morning.
Reporter 9: <01:12:38>
For religious events, for example, large religious groups can meet together and that doesn’t really-
<01:12:44>
Who can?
Reporter 9: <01:12:45>
Religious groups like church can meet.
<01:12:47>
I didn’t speak to him about it, but he did speak to me this morning. We talked about. Please.
Reporter 9: <01:12:51>
<crosstalk 01:12:51> But your model has full mitigation, sir. Does that go against your model? Because that’s not full mitigation-
<01:12:54>
I don’t know. It would have to look at what he did.
Reporter 3: <01:12:55>
Back to the healthcare workers on the front lines. Following up with Dr. Birx as well. Hazard pay. You have said you have wanted that for the healthcare workers on the front lines. I know Secretary Mnuchin has mentioned something about that possibly-
<01:13:08>
I like it.
Reporter 3: <01:13:08>
… In the fourth level of the stimulus package.
<01:13:09>
I like it.
Reporter 3: <01:13:10>
But can you make it happen now? Do we have to wait for a fourth stimulus?
<01:13:14>
Well, I think it’s something we’re discussing in terms of bonus or bonus pay. It doesn’t have to be called hazard pay. Could be called… Hey, look, I watched those people going to hospitals that I know. I talked about one of them, right? But I watched them walk into those hospitals, and they walk in, men, women, young, middle age, not so many older ones, and I watch them. They’re almost like… And I think I take the word almost out. They’re like warriors. They’re going in. People are cheering. Where there’s a building across the street, the people are screaming, they’re clapping. They’re like heroes.
Reporter 3: <01:13:50>
<inaudible 01:13:50> going up the Empire State Building-
<01:13:52>
No, no. I will tell you, I think it’s incredible. They’re like warriors. They like soldiers. And we’re going to be doing something for them, so whether it’s bonus because we’re hopefully going to be over this relatively quickly. It’s going to be vicious for a period of time, but hopefully we’re going to be over this. You have a lot of questions today. Look at you. Do you know this young lady behind you?
<01:14:17>
That’s good. That’s a good idea.
Reporter 3: <01:14:19>
It makes our marriage strong.
<01:14:20>
It’s good for a marriage.
<01:14:43>
Okay. They took that up under the task force and make maybe Mike, do you want to say a few words about it.
<01:19:52>
John, I think it’s a very fair question, though, and it’s something we’re really going to look at because it doesn’t seem fair. If you have it, you have a big advantage and at a certain income level you do. I think it’s one of the greatest answers I’ve ever heard because Mike was able to speak for five minutes and not even touch your question. I said that’s what you call a great professional. Let me just tell you, it’s really a fair question, and it’s something we’re looking at.
<01:20:32>
It’s a certain group. And it’s a pretty big group. We’re looking at it.
<01:20:41>
I haven’t been up there yet. The other people have been talking about it, and they haven’t spoken to-
<01:20:48>
They’re talking about it-
<01:20:49>
I know, but they’re talking about it in the 2020 election too, and nobody’s gotten to it. Nobody’s talked about it at all.
<01:20:57>
I think we will. Yeah. I think we’re going to get to it. I think we’re going to get to it. I don’t think the other group will get to it. They haven’t even-
<01:21:03>
I don’t think the other group will get to it. They haven’t even spoken about it and it’s a big group of people.
<01:21:11>
No, not committing but it’s something we’re going to look at. I can’t commit. I have to get approval from it. I have a thing called Congress, but it’s something we’re going to look at and we have been looking at it.
<01:21:24>
If there is a phase four, but we’re certainly looking at certain things. We want to help restaurants, entertainment. We want to help because it’s jobs. Not the restaurants, it’s jobs, tremendous amounts of jobs. So we’re looking at that. We’re looking at infrastructure. When you think of it, we will have spent $8 trillion and way back. We’re way pulled back, but we will have spent $8 trillion in the Middle East and yet our roads are in bad shape. Our bridges, our tunnels, bad shape. We’re going to be the talk of the world again soon, but we want two trillion. We will have spent in the Middle East and all we got out of it was death and cost. But all we got out of it was death. Millions of people. You have to look at the other side too. Millions and millions of people killed. Our great soldiers, thousands killed, so many wounded, hurt. Yet when we want to go and fix a road someplace, we want to do what we want to do in our country. It’s time that we spend money on our country. That’s what we’re going to do.
<01:22:29>
It’s time that we start spending on our roads and our bridges and our schools, and all of the things that we’re supposed to be spending on. People are finally getting used to it. You could look at all of what we’ve done in the Middle East, way back in so many different places, way back in other countries too by the way. I’ve gone to other countries that are very rich. I said, I’m sorry, you’re going to have to reimburse us for our costs. They don’t even want to know what I’m talking about. It takes them 20 minutes to figure it out because nobody’s ever asked them to do that and they’re doing it. They’re doing it and they have no choice. They have to do it. So it’s time that we start spending on the USA. Please.
<01:25:47>
Many countries all over the world want to know whether or not they could use, especially our new test that was just developed by Abbott, which is almost instantaneous, which is going to be great. Remember this, we inherited. The word is we inherited bad tests, we literally inherited bad tests. These are horrible tests and it was broken. It was all broken and we fixed it. We’re doing millions of tests. Sometimes we send out a test and it’s not used. In many cases it wasn’t used, but we worked with the States and the testing has been pretty amazing. Especially considering the fact that we inherited a very broken system. Jeff.
<01:26:33>
I am looking at hotspots. I am looking where flights are going into hotspots. Some of those flights I didn’t like from the beginning, but closing up every single flight on every single airline, that’s a very, very, very rough decision. But we are thinking about hotspots where you go from spot to spot, both hot. We’ll let you know fairly soon.
<01:27:01>
Similar thing. We have trains going back and forth. People don’t think of trains, but we do a lot of transportation business. It’s a very big decision to do that. We’re pretty late in the process from the standpoint that this is starting. You’re going to start seeing, I think over the next couple of weeks, you’re going to start to see us hit a top and start coming down. So we’ll make those decisions. Those are very, very big decisions from the standpoint of the future of our country in a way, in the future of our country. We have to get our country back. We have to start moving again. We have to start working again. They’re doing tests on airlines, very strong tests for getting on, getting off. They’re doing tests on trains, getting on, getting off. But when you start closing up entire transportation systems and then opening them up, that’s a very tough thing to do.
<01:28:03>
The re use. I love the sterilization of the masks. Ohio Company, you can sterilize the N95. You can sterilize that mask for up to 20 times. Think of that, up to 20 times. We’re throwing them out and they’re very expensive masks. They’re throwing them out. I kept saying, one of the first questions I asked to Dr. Fowchee. I said, why aren’t they sterilized or cleaning the masks? Because it wasn’t my thing exactly when we first heard about this. Nobody else knew it either. Now we have a company and I guess a number of companies, one in Ohio, a great one that makes equipment where you can sterilize a mask up to 20 times, which is fantastic.
<01:28:54>
I don’t believe. Look, there’s a big thing. A lot of people don’t like it. Some people don’t like it because you’re taking it away from the medical professional. Some people don’t like it for other reasons. I don’t see where it hurts and it doesn’t have to be a mask. It can be a scarf. Scarf is highly recommended by the professionals. I don’t see where it hurts. I think frankly, if people wanted to do it, we don’t want to do anything that’s going to take masks. You’re talking about a tremendous amount of masks when you do that. We don’t want to take them away from our medical professionals, but I certainly don’t see it hurting. But what I do see people doing now is using scarves. I think in a certain way, depending on the fabric, I think in a certain way the scarf is better. It’s actually better.
<01:29:41>
Yeah, please. You <inaudible 01:29:37>.
<01:30:07>
My biggest disappointment is that churches can’t meet in a time of need. This is really a great time for churches to be together, for people to get together on a Sunday or any day and meet. Yet, if you do that, if you do it close, you’re really giving this invisible enemy a very big advantage. So it’s the biggest, I think the single biggest disappointment. One of the reasons I said, wouldn’t it be great just to pick a date as I called it aspirational. An aspirational date would be Easter. I will tell you, it’s very, very disappointing. But again, you get too close and if somebody’s sick, you’re going to probably catch it. So you have to be very careful.
<01:30:56>
<inaudible 01:30:55>.
<01:30:56>
Did he write the statement or get did PR person write it?
<01:31:05>
Good. <inaudible 01:31:03>.
<01:31:07>
That’s okay. Sure.
<01:31:09>
Oh absolutely. I’d love to.
<01:31:13>
I’d love to speak to him too. I’d be in <inaudible 01:31:14>
<01:31:16>
I always found him to be a nice guy. I don’t know him very well, frankly, but I think he’s probably a nice guy. No, if he’d like to call it, I’d absolutely take his call. You can tell him.
<01:31:37>
And no ammunition. Maybe no ammunition.
<01:31:39>
We didn’t do that. That turned out to be a false story. Now you’re starting to go.
<01:31:43>
What are you working for, CNN?
<01:31:46>
<crosstalk 01:31:46> with Fox. Fox isn’t so easy either. Don’t kid yourself.
<01:31:52>
Look, John, let me tell you something. You know that’s a false story. What you just said is a false story. This doctor knows it better than anybody. No, but you shouldn’t be repeating a story that you know is false. All right. Who’s next? Please, go ahead in the back. You didn’t get one.
<01:32:10>
It’s very sad what’s happening in Iran.
<01:32:18>
Look, we have to talk to them. I think we could work out a deal with Iran very quickly. All they have to do is call. I just think that they’re proud people and the leadership is proud. They’re proud like all of us. We’re proud you. You people are proud. They’re having a hard time picking up the phone or they’re having a hard time setting up the meeting, but they could fix their country pretty easily. We don’t want hostility, but if they are hostile to us, they’re going to regret it like they’ve never regretted anything before, as per today’s statement. But all they have to do is call or have somebody call. There are channels where we can deal very easily. Again, I think that John Kerry did a tremendous disservice. I think he violated the Logan Act 100%. that’s what I think. I think it made it tough for them because they were dealing with them for years.
<01:33:11>
It was a terrible deal. All of that money, $150 billion plus cash, plus cash, plane loads of cash, for a deal that was no good and was short term. Essentially it was a short term deal. Who makes a deal for that kind of money and $1.8 billion in cash? I don’t even know what that would look like. That would be this room would have to be filled up five times with hundred dollar bills. Who makes a deal like this? Then on top of it, the deal is no good. All right. How about one or two more?
<01:33:50>
Mexican violence?
<01:34:01>
It could be. It’s another cost of not getting our country working. Some people are getting along great. I’ve also had the exact opposite question. Families are coming together. They’re actually coming together. They haven’t talked for a long time and now all of a sudden they’re talking again, they’re loving each other. So I’ve heard that too, but I also have heard domestic violence at a higher level. And drug use because of, in this case, they’d lose their jobs. They had a great job, they had a great life, they have a great family. All of a sudden the husband’s told that he doesn’t have a job anymore and he’s got no money, and that brings drugs into it. That brings suicide into it. It’s a terrible thing. We have to get our country going again. We did the right thing. We had no choice. We did the right thing.
<01:34:54>
Other countries tried to use the herd or the herd mentality. It’s just something that doesn’t work. Just to say, I heard Sweden gave it a shot and they saw things that were really frightening. They went immediately to shutting down the country. We did the right thing and we did it early. We did it early and we stopped other people from coming into our country early. But no, that’s a cost. I’ve been talking about that. People will say, what are you talking about? But you will have. You’ll have that. You’ll have domestic violence. You’ll have violence. You’ll have suicide. You’ll have drug addiction. A lot of people are going to be lost. We want to get this open as soon as we can. I mean, I’ll be the happiest person. So will you, everyone in this room happy when we get the word that this is the time. We have our common sense and they’ll give me a decision or they’ll be making certain statements. I think I’ll know how to interpret those statements very well. I’ll be with Mike, I’ll be with the task force. I’ll be with a lot of very talented people, including the two people on stage with us. But I look forward, that’ll be a great day. That’ll be a great day. All right. How about one more please?
<01:36:11>
Sure. <inaudible 01:36:13>
<01:37:32>
While you’re up, could you talk about how tight that southern border is right now?
<01:39:06>
But I am glad you asked that question because we want the farmers, they’ve had this for years. We want the farmers to be able to get the people that have been working those farms for years or we’re not going to have farms. So they’re going to come in and they’re going to be given a certain pass. We’re going to check them very, very closely, especially over the next month. Because remember after a month or so, I think once this passes, we’re not going to have to be hopefully worried too much about the virus, but we want them to come in. We’re not closing the border so that we can’t get any of those people to come. They’ve been there for years and years. I’ve given the commitment to the farmers they’re going to continue to come or we’re not going to have any farmers. One more question. Who are you with, by the way?
<01:39:54>
Boy, amazing. Who else please?
<01:39:59>
We’re looking at the two ships. We have Canada notified, a lot of Canadians, a lot of British on the ship. They’re coming to take the people that are on the ship back to their homeland. Canada’s coming, UK is coming, and we have Americans. We have some people that are quite sick and we’re taking care of that. I’m speaking with the governor about that a lot and it’s a tough situation. It’s a tough situation. You can understand you have people that are sick on those ships. States don’t want to take, they have enough problems right now. They don’t want to take them, but we have to from a humane standpoint. We don’t have a choice. It’s like I don’t want to do that, but we have to. People are dying.
<01:40:48>
We’re going to do something. We’re going to do something. At a minimum, we’re sending medical teams on board the ships. We’re taking the Canadians off and giving them to Canadian authorities. They’re going to bring them back home. The same thing with the UK, but we have to help the people. They’re in big trouble. No matter where, no matter where they’re from. Happened to be Americans, largely Americans. But whether they were or not, I mean they’re dying. So we have to do something. The governor knows that too.
<01:41:23>
Well we’re sending a lot of them home. We’re sending a lot of them home to their countries, but we’ll be doing something and we’ll be announcing it. You’ll see what we’re doing. But we’re also putting medical staff onto the ships so that we can … we have to take care of the people.
<01:41:39>
No you won’t actually. You know.
<01:41:55>
I had heard that. Now, I don’t know. Do you know that answer Mike?
<01:42:00>
It sounds like it. We could get back. It’s a process that they’re working on. We’ll get back to you as soon as we find out. All right, one more please.
<01:42:11>
I did. I spoke to him. He’s great. He’s a great guy and he’s doing a wonderful job from Brazil.
<01:42:18>
Spoke to him this morning and just a very complimentary call. He’s working very hard. He’s got a problem with the virus, got a big problem. We talked about it today at length. We had a call this morning and Brazil is shut down as you know. They weren’t going to shut it down, but they had to. So Brazil is shut down. The world is shut down. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this. The entire world is shut down. You go from having the most powerful economy in the world and from other countries that are doing well, to being everything is shutdown. It’s very sad, but we’re going to get it going and we’re going to be stronger than ever. I really believe that. We’re going to be stronger. We’re going to have a big bounce, a very big bounce when this is gone. I just want to thank the American people. I want to thank these great professionals and I want to thank the media because really for the most part, the media has been very fair. Thank you very much everybody.
