<01:20>
Does everybody understand that?
<01:23>
Yeah, sure. Just one second. Let him finish up.
<02:01>
Just tell them about how have you done with the testing <crosstalk 00:02:03>-
<02:50>
They have plenty of materials is what you’re saying?
<02:56>
And they have had. Doctor, do you want to make a little statement?
<03:22>
Thank you, I appreciate it, and the whole situation is … The testing has been amazing actually, what they’ve been able to produce in such a short period of time. You had mentioned four million tests before? Four million?
<03:40>
What number will it be?
<04:38>
And they started working when they saw there was a problem in China, that was many weeks ago. So they saw there was something going on in China long before anybody even heard of it. That was actually before it was even in the print. They heard there was a problem in China. That’s when they started working on this and that’s pretty incredible. That’s why we’re in good shape.
<04:59>
Doctor?
<09:10>
And now it’s all performing perfectly.
<09:12>
Just so you understand, now it’s all performing perfect.
<09:18>
They’re fantastic people. These are fantastic people. Now it’s performing very well and it has been performing very well. And as you said, you had two of the three that worked perfectly and that’s all you need is two of the group. In fact, you could have one of the three and it would work. So we had two of the three but now it’s performing perfectly in all cases.
<12:11>
I do think what’s happening though is you have people that are sick but they don’t go to the hospital or they’re not very sick. It’s a more minor case and it could be of this virus. But we have a lot of people that aren’t going to the hospital so we’re not seeing those people. And if you did see those people, I believe, <inaudible 00:12:29> service, the statistics actually become much better because they heal, they get better. They don’t see a doctor, they don’t see a hospital. They have a problem, they have the sniffles or a cold or <inaudible 00:12:40>, some of the symptoms, and over a period of time, a short period of time or even a longer period of time, they get better.
<12:47>
If you look at that, then all of a sudden you’re coming into a much lower category of risk in terms of death type risk. Because I think a lot of people aren’t going to the doctors, a lot of people aren’t going to hospitals and so you’re not seeing those people.
<15:16>
Well, we’re considering different but we’re also considering the fact that last year you had approximately 36000 deaths due to what’s called the flu. When I first heard this four or five, six weeks ago, when I was hearing the amount of people that died of the flu, I was shocked to hear anywhere from 27000 to 70000 or 77000, and I guess they said in 1990, that wasn’t particular very bad. It was higher than that. As of the time I left the plane with you, we had 240 cases, that’s at least what was on a very fine network known as Fox News. I know you love it, but that’s what I happened to be watching. And how was the show last night? Did it get good ratings by the way?
<16:02>
Oh really? I heard it broke <inaudible 00:16:03> records but maybe-
<16:03>
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I heard you broke all <inaudible 00:16:00> records, but maybe that’s wrong. That’s what they told me. I don’t know. I can’t imagine that. But what happened is if you look at the number, the time we left, it was 240 cases, Peter, and 11 deaths. That’s what it has been. You look at throughout the world, I mean other countries have.. South Korea and Italy, and in particular, China, have many.
<16:24>
Now, I also hear their numbers are getting much better in those places and I’ve heard their numbers are getting much better in China, but I hear their numbers are getting much in Italy, et cetera, et cetera. But when I hear…
<16:34>
So we have 240 cases, 11 deaths, everything is too much and it’s true. I don’t want 11 deaths. I don’t want any deaths. Over the last long period of time, when people have the flu, you have an average of 36,000 people dying. I never heard those numbers. I would have been shocked. I would have said does anybody die from the flu? I didn’t know people died from the flu. 36,000 people died. 27,000 to 77,000, that’s your flu. And again, you had a couple of years where it was over 100,000 people died from the flu.
<17:09>
So I start to say I wonder what’s going on here. Now, if you look at the percentage, the percentage for the flu is under 1%, but this could also be under 1% because many of the people that aren’t that sick don’t report, so they’re not putting those people in there, and you’re smiling when I say that.
<17:24>
Who are you from, by the way? Which?
<17:25>
You are? I don’t watch CNN, that’s why I don’t recognize you.
<17:32>
<crosstalk 00:17:32> I don’t watch it. I don’t watch CNN because CNN is fake news. Go ahead.
<17:39>
Of course it’s an effect. It is an effect. Now, you know if you know anything about me, I like when people happen to stay in the United States and spend their money in the United States. So I think people are staying in the United States more, they’re going to spend their money in the United States, <inaudible 00:17:52> this is ended. It will end. People have to remain calm.
<17:57>
I do think that if you look at the numbers and you look at the numbers from other years or on other things and you look at these numbers, it’ll be interesting to see what you find and statistics will soon be coming out. But there was a big statistic today that it’s way under 1%. It said one-tenth of 1% in one case, but nobody really knows. We’ll be able to find out.
<18:18>
The problem is for people to get better that don’t see a doctor or don’t go to a hospital, those people get better if they were in the numbers. The numbers would look much better in terms of death rate.
<18:30>
Oh, I think you’ll have other things. The amazing thing, and look at the job numbers today. We had a tremendous job number today.
<18:37>
We had a number that when you add last month’s number, which was a correction of plus 80,000 jobs, wasn’t it a 350,000 jobs number today? That was shocking. I was watching a particular network and they said on the net, but they’re pros, they said, “Wow, these are unbelievable numbers.” They were shocked by the numbers. Over 350,000, when you add last month’s correction. Peter?
<19:17>
I think it’s fine if they want to do it. I don’t think it’s an overreaction, but I wouldn’t be generally inclined to do it. I really wouldn’t be. Now, it depends on what country you’re talking about. If you’re talking about if they’re going to another country, or are you talking about within the United States?
<19:33>
Yeah, they have to feel comfortable. People have to feel comfortable to have a good time. If you look at do I want to go to China, do I want to go to certain parts of Italy, do I want to go to South Korea, right now? That’s a different decision. But you have some parts of the world and some parts, many, most parts of the country.
<19:49>
In this big vast land of ours, this great country of ours, we have 240 cases. Most of those people are going to be fine. A vast majority are going to be fine. We’ve had 11 deaths and they’ve been largely old people who were susceptible to what’s happening. Now, that would be the case, I assume, with a regular flu too. If somebody is old and in a weakened state or ill, they’re susceptible to the common flu too. They would tell me just now that the common flu kills people and old people is sort of the target.
<20:26>
And the young. Now, the interesting thing here, it’s very interesting. The interesting thing here is that the young seem to be doing unbelievable well. Actually, better than they do with the flu. Young people and very young people are doing very well, which is another thing I guess they’re trying to figure out.
<20:47>
Not at all.
<20:49>
No, not at all. Not at all. I’m a person that was never big on a handshaking deal throughout my life. They used to criticize me for it, or laugh about it or have fun with it. But if you’re a politician, like I walk in and the doctors have their hands out, Hello, sir, how you?” If you don’t shake hands, they’re not going to like you too much, and I guess that’s my business. I never thought I’d be a politician. I guess I’m a politician, but the fact is I feel very secure. I feel very secure.
<21:22>
I was told that one person maybe that works someplace in the building that I’m not even sure what level, but that one person may have had the virus. And therefore, they said, sir, because of the fact that one person may have had the… It’s a big building with a lot of great scientists, frankly. One person had the virus, and that turned out to be a negative report. That turned out to be negative, and so they called me but it was already canceled. But this morning, I said, wait a minute, I’m going to Tennessee. We’re going down to Florida to have a meeting on Monday as you know, and so we’re going to Florida. I’d love to stop, the CDC. That was a big deal with Secret Service, but they’re fantastic and they worked it out, so we stopped. But it was a report, and the person, it was a negative diagnosis.
<22:13>
No, we had another big deal. There were two of them, and there was a thing that we recommended because there was a lot of people, and we recommended that they let them cancel that one. But there was another one in a similar area.
<22:30>
No, I haven’t.
<22:32>
Well, I’ll tell you what, I haven’t had any problem filling them. We just had one in North Carolina, South Carolina, all over the place, and we have tens of thousands of people standing outside the arenas. So we haven’t had…
<22:45>
It doesn’t bother me at all, and it doesn’t bother them at all.
<22:53>
Well, that’s a big question. So I was just on the phone with Vice President and they’re trying to make a decision. Frankly, if it were up to me, I would be inclined to say leave everybody on the ship for a period of time and you use the ship as your base, but a lot of people would rather do it a different way. They’d rather quarantine people on the land. Now, when they do that, our numbers are going to go up. Our numbers are going to go up. The 240 is going to go up, and I assume that perhaps it’s a very big ship with thousands of people on it, including the sailors and the crew. You’re talking about a massive number of people. That is a big ship.
<23:31>
If it were up to me, I would do it that way. A lot of people think we should do it the other way. They’re Americans. They’re mostly Americans, and we have to take care of Americans.
<23:41>
Bring them off the ship.
<23:43>
No, they’ll be under quarantine and they’ll be tested very carefully. Everyone is tested very carefully. Somebody said today… In fact, the Governor said a story that a friend of yours, Governor Kemp? A friend of yours was saying how tough it is to get into the United States with all of the testing. Maybe you’d like to say.
<25:13>
But he was very impressed with how hard it is to get on the plane. He was tested two times, and then one person said three times, just to come in. We’re watching it very closely. The people are doing a good job and instead of being negative, you should be positive. These scientists are doing a phenomenal job with something that came from out of nowhere, a very short time ago.
<25:57>
It’s all right. It’s all right.
<26:23>
Anybody that wants a test can get a test. That’s what the bottom line is.
<27:15>
But I think importantly, anybody right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test, gets a test. They’re there. They have the test, and the tests are beautiful. Anybody that needs a test, gets a test. If there’s a doctor that wants to test, if there is somebody coming off a ship like the big monster ship that’s out there, right now. Which, again, that’s a big decision, do I want to bring all those people on? People would like me to do that. I don’t like the idea of doing it, but anybody that needs a test can have a test.
<27:49>
They’re all set. They have them out there. In addition to that, they’re making millions of more as we speak. But as of right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test, that’s the important thing and the tests are all perfect, like the letter was perfect. The transcription was perfect, right? This was not as perfect as that, but pretty good.
<28:14>
We’re handling it from South Korea. We’re testing that you can’t come in from South Korea unless they go through.
<28:21>
I’d have to ask the doctors.
<29:24>
And this is, by the way, the highest level test.
<29:26>
This is the highest level test anywhere.
<29:34>
That’s a very good question.
<29:37>
From my… Yes. From my standpoint, I want to rely on people. I have great experts, including our Vice President who is working 24 hours a day on this stuff. They would like to have the people come off. I’d rather have the people stay, but I’d go with them. I told them to make the final decision. I would rather it because I like the numbers being where they are, I don’t need to have the numbers double because of one ship that wasn’t our fault, and it wasn’t the fault of the people on the ship either. It wasn’t their fault either, and they’re mostly Americans, so I can live either way with it. I’d rather have them stay on, personally, but I fully understand if they want to take them off. I gave them the authority to make the decision.
<30:27>
No. No. No, I’m saying whatever it is, that takes precedence over the numbers. No. I like the numbers. I would rather have the numbers stay where they are. But if they want to take them off, they’ll take them off. But if that happens, all of a sudden your 240 is obviously going to be a much higher number and probably the 11 will be a higher number too.
<30:50>
There is probably risk to both. Probably risk to both.
<31:02>
We’re working very closely with South Korea.
<31:06>
Yeah.
<31:06>
Well, we’re working closely with South Korea. They’re also in a much different position. They have a lot of people that are infected. We don’t. They’re in a much different position, but we are working very closely with South Korea. As you know, we’re allies, even though they’ve made much better trade deals in the past than we did. We’re allies with South Korea. You have heard that, right? And we’re working very closely with South Korea.
<31:29>
And a lot of the testing is very similar testing, but they’re in a much different position than we… They have thousands of people and they’ve got some difficult right now, but we’re working very closely. In fact, they’re calling us, asking us and these people for advice.
<33:32>
And don’t forget these are the people as an example HIV, I talked about it in speeches and other things, HIV free or essentially free within nine years now it’s a ten year process. These are the people that came up with the answers to this stuff that three years ago, four years ago you would’ve said it’s impossible. What they’ve done is incredible and to others also. If you look at what they’ve done with HIV, it’s incredible. Other countries are all calling the same people that you’re dealing with. And honestly, what you should be doing is giving them a lot of credit because this was a very condensed period of time. Even the vaccine, they’re going to have tests done in 90 days that two years ago you were taking two years to do. And their making great progress. It takes a period of time, but they’re making great progress. Other countries are dealing with the same people you’re talking to now and others in this government universe they’re incredible people, and honestly, you should be giving them tremendous credit. They have done a tremendous job.
<34:35>
When you mentioned South Korea, they’re dealing with us all the time. When you mentioned Italy they’re dealing with us all the time. We’re working together with China. We’re working together with everybody. But these are great people. These are incredible people, and you shouldn’t be knocking them. You should be praising them. They have done an incredible job already.
<35:03>
I just think this is something, Peter, that you can never really think is going to happen. I’ve heard all about this could be a big deal from before it happened. Something like this could happen. I think we’re doing a really good job in this country at keeping it down. We’ve really been very vigilant, and we’ve done a tremendous job at keeping it down. But who would’ve thought, look how long ago is it? Six, seven, eight weeks ago? Who would’ve thought, would he be having this subject? We were going to hit 30,000 on the Dow. Like it was clockwork, right? It was all going, it was right up, and then all of a sudden this came out.
<35:43>
All I say is be calm, we have the greatest people in the world. Everyone’s relying on us, the world is relying on us. They’ve done an incredible job in a very condensed period of time. The thing is you never really know when something like this is going to strike and what it’s going to be. This is different than something else. This is a very different thing than something else. So I think they’ve done a great job. And you know what if I didn’t think they did, I’d tell you.
<36:11>
I just don’t think that somebody is going to, without seeing something like we saw something happening in China. As soon as they saw that happening, they essentially, not from the White House, we don’t need a lab in the White House, but they saw something happening. I found it very interesting. They spotted something going on in China. When you see these labs that I just saw, I would love to have them see it if it’s possible, but they spotted something going on in China. They started working on it immediately. Just in case it should come here, and also to help China. I mean if we could find something that’s beneficial, we want to give it to China, like they’re going to want to give it to us. China’s working very closely with us, South Korea, Italy, all of them. They’ve been working very close here, but we’re doing, again 240 and 11 that’s where we are right now.
<37:04>
We don’t have a forecast because we don’t know. We don’t know how many people have this aren’t going to see a doctor, aren’t going to see a hospital. And the higher that number is, the better the number is from the standpoint of death, the death count. They get better without seeing doctors, without seeing the hospitals. So nobody’s marking it down and I think the number is very high. I think that number is much higher, but it never gets reported because they’re not going to hospitals or doctors. The ones that get reported are people that are really sick enough to go to a hospital or to a doctor. So it makes the numbers look worse.
<37:43>
We’re prepared for anything, we’re prepared. We are really very highly prepared for anything. And in a short period of time, I mean what they’ve done is very incredible. And I’ve seen what they’ve done back there. It’s really incredible.
<37:58>
And by the way, NIH, what they’ve done, I spent time over there and I like this stuff. My uncle is a great person who was at MIT. He taught at MIT for I think a record number of years. He was a great, super genius. Dr. John Trump. I like this stuff. I really get it. People are surprised that I understand that I understand it. Every one of these doctors said, how do you know so much about this? Maybe I have a natural ability. Maybe I should have done that instead of running for President. But you know what? What they’ve done is very incredible. I understand that whole world. I love that world. I really do. I love that world. And they should be given tremendous credit, and the whole world is relying on us.
<38:41>
You hear about you’re saying about South Korea. South Korea’s very much reliant on the information we’re given them, and they’re reliant on the vaccines that we will come up with very soon we’re going to come up. Now it takes a period of time to get them tested and then put into the market. It has to be very safe. You can’t give a vaccine that’s going to be unsafe. It would be a disaster. So that’s where we are and I think these people deserve, all of them, the scientists, the doctors, I think they deserve tremendous credit. I really do.
<39:16>
He did.
<39:24>
So I told Mike not to be complimentary of the governor because that governor is a snake. Okay. Inslee. And I said, if you’re nice to him, he will take advantage. And I would have said no. Let me just tell you, we have a lot of problems with the governor and the governor of Washington that’s where you have many of your problems. Okay. So Mike may be happy with him, but I’m not. Okay. And he would say that naturally.
<39:51>
And as I said last night at the town hall, if we came up with a cure today and tomorrow, everything is gone. And you went up to this governor who is not a good governor by the way. If you went up to this governor and you said to him, how did Trump do? He’d say he did a terrible job. It makes no difference. If we came up with a cure, right now and tomorrow everything ended at eight o’clock tomorrow morning, everything ended. He would say, Trump, did a horrible job. Okay. And I told Mike that would happen. I said, no matter how nice you are, he’s no good. That’s the way I feel. Goodbye. Good luck to CNN.
<40:44>
They’re not testing. They’re sampling people in other countries.
<40:48>
Excuse me. There’s a difference. I heard what he said. They’re sampling people. It’s a drive-by. They give samples. Now can we do that? Yeah, we can do that, but that’s not effective like what we’re doing. We’re doing the whole thing in one stop. They’re doing samples in South Korea. It’s a very different thing. Go ahead. Would you like to say something?
<43:01>
The difference is that they’re being proactive. We are being proactive. We’re going out and looking for spots. Nobody else is doing that. Not by leaving samples or anything else. We’re going out and proactively looking to see where there’s a problem. We don’t have to do that, but we’re doing it to see if we can find areas which are trouble spots. I don’t even know if I agree with that. You’ll find out those areas just by sitting back and waiting, but they’re trying to find out before you would normally find out by waiting. And I think that’s great, but that’s what they’re doing.
<43:36>
We’re the only country in that sense that’s proactive. We’re totally proactive, and we’re totally equipped to handle it.
<45:03>
Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
