<02:30>
Thank you. Thank you very much. I just had a great conversation with the leading faith leaders of our country. It went extremely well. We learned a lot. I learned a lot, and we’re working on some things that are very interesting, and very positive. I thank them all for being on the call. And yesterday, we unveiled detailed guidelines for America’s governors to initiate a phased, safe, and gradual reopening of America. That’s what’s happening. The guidelines provide governors with the fact-driven and science-based metrics they will need to make the decisions that are right for their own particular state. To view the guidelines, you can go to the website at Whitehouse.gov/OpeningAmerica. So that’s Whitehouse.gov/OpeningAmerica. Treasury has sent out economic relief payments to more than 80 million Americans who have their direct deposit information on file with the IRS. And an incredible success it has been. If you have not received your check, please visit IRS.gov/GetMyPayment. How about that one? IRS.gov/GetMyPayment. That way the IRS can get you your payment in days, and they’ve done a fantastic job, I have to say. And you won’t have to wait for a check in the mail.
<03:58>
I have some very good news. We sent out 80 million deposits, and less than 1% had even little problems. A couple of had minor glitches, but it’s substantially less than 1%. so out of 80 million deposits, less than 1%, and that gets corrected immediately. So just please do as they say, you’ll get that very quickly, very easily. Today I’m also announcing that Secretary Perdue, who happens to be right next to me, handsome man, and the Department of Agriculture will be implementing a $19 billion relief program for our great farmers, and ranchers as they cope with the fallout of the global pandemic. Very honored to be doing this. Our farmers, ranchers, these are great people, great Americans. Never complain, they never complain. They just do what they have to do. The program will include direct payments to farmers, as well as mass purchases of dairy, meat and agricultural produce to get that food to the people in need. The USDA will receive another $14 billion in July that will have funding to continue help or helping. And this will help our farmers, and our ranches, and it’s money well deserved.
<05:23>
So not only were they targeted at one point by China, and that was over a period of time, and you saw that happening, and they never complained, but that worked out very well. $12 billion they got, and $16 billion they got. And now it’s 19 billion. And I’m just going to ask Secretary Perdue to explain exactly how we’re going to handle it. Thank you.
<09:09>
Thank you very much, thank you very much. Thank you Sonny. So our great secretary of agriculture was the governor of Georgia for eight years. And the only reason he isn’t still there, frankly, is that he was term-limited. And I said, let’s get him for agriculture, and you’ve done a fantastic job. We want to thank you very much. Eight years at Georgia. We really appreciate it. Great job. Even as we prepare to rebuild our economy, America continues to wage a all-out medical war to defeat the invisible enemy. To date, we have conducted more than 3.78 million Coronavirus tests, by far the most of any country. It’s not even close. In the hardest hit areas such as New York and Louisiana, we’ve also tested more people per capita than South Korea, Singapore, and every other country. The United States has the most robust, advanced, and accurate testing system anywhere in the world. As of yesterday, we have distributed nearly 660,000 Abbott IDs. Now that’s an incredible test. It’s called the ID Now point of care diagnostic test, and it’s fantastic. It’s the hot one. Problem with this business is it’s the hot one until about two days from now. Because we do have a saliva test that just came out, and that can be self-administered, and it’s said to be fantastic. I want to thank Abbott Laboratories. They have been incredible. I want to thank Roche. They’ve likewise been incredible. Over the last several days, we’ve seen a dramatic increase in the number of tests conducted by hospitals and academic institutions, which have now performed nearly 600,000 tests. There’s a tremendous amount of unused capacity in the states available for governors to tap. We have tremendous unused capability within those laboratories, and I hope the governors are going to be able to use them. The governors are responsible for testing, and I hope they’re going to be able to use this tremendous amount of available capacity that we have. It’s up to one million additional tests per week.
<11:28>
When you think of that, in the next few weeks, we’ll be sending out 5.5 million testing swabs to the state. Swabs can be done easily by the governors themselves. Mostly it’s cotton. It’s not a big deal. You can get cotton easily, but if they can’t get it, we will take care of it. Yesterday the FDA announced a new collaboration with United Health Group, the Gates Foundation, Quantagen, and US Cotton to greatly expand the supply of essential swabs, including a new polyester Q-tip-type swab for the Coronavirus testing. All of these actions will help our testing capability continue to grow dramatically. So we’re helping people. Even with swabs, we get ventilators. We’re now the the king of ventilators. We have hundreds of thousands under construction. We don’t need them ourselves. The governors are in great shape. If we do, we have a great stockpile that we’ll immediately send to the state in need, but we’ve handled that situation incredibly well. I hope people understand it.
<12:37>
I wish the media would get the word out. What we’ve done in ventilators is amazing, because they’re big, expensive, and highly complex. We’re speaking to other countries. I spoke to President of Mexico today, great gentlemen, and I told him that we are going to be helping him out with ventilators, helping Mexico out. And we’ll be helping some other countries too. We have a lot of very high-level, high quality ventilators, and they’re here, and they’re also being manufactured as we speak. Following the announcement of our re-opening guidelines, there have been some very partisan voices in the media and politics who have spread false and misleading information about our testing capacity. It’s totally false and misleading. Demonstrating a complete failure to understand the enormous scope of the testing capabilities that we’ve brought online. And we started really from ground zero. We started from really being very, very outdated and obsolete, as a country, from the past, and I will say this, if they didn’t understand it, it’s just really, unfortunately, I hate to say this, because we’ve been getting along very well, but it would be false reporting, because they understand the capability.
<13:53>
And it’s going to be up to the states to use that capability. The states have local points where they can go. A governor can call the mayors, and the mayors can call representatives, and everything is perfect. And that’s the way it should work, and always should work. We’ll help New York and all of the other states get even better on their testing. We have to get even better, and some people think a little bit differently. There are areas where you have vast amounts of area where you have very few people, and almost no people are infected. And those places will be looked upon differently by different governors, and I think you’re going to have a lot of news coming out about that over the next few days. I think certain states are going to come online, and they’re going to start the early stages of the puzzle that we’re putting together, and it’s going to be together sooner rather than later.
<14:48>
A lot of really incredible things are happening. And at some point in the not too distant future, we’re going to have our country back, and it’s going to be, I think really with what we’re doing on stimulus and helping people keep their businesses together, and their lives together, and their jobs. It’s going to be better than ever before. I hope so. I really do. The current conversation is reminiscent of what happened on ventilators. You remember that. When requests were made, far beyond what was objectively needed, we were hearing from a certain state, and we were hearing from a lot that they needed far more ventilators. In one case they wanted 40,000 ventilators, 40,000. It turned out that they had plenty, and they had a number of about seven or 8,000, and that was plenty. We supplied them with a lot, but that was the right number. We got it just about right. And if they did need more, we’re ready to give more. But I think the surge seems to be over, and there are a lot of governors just doing a great job. And they’re working with us, but we’re all working together.
<15:58>
The research and development that we’ve done at the federal level has been absolutely incredible. The media will be accepting of these figures when they get to see the end result. I think they’re going to see it, and I think they’re already seeing it. That includes not only ventilators, but beds. We built, in most cases, far more than they even needed. But we wanted to err on the side of caution. This is what the governors wanted. They wanted a certain amount in Louisiana. I spoke with the governor, had a long talk with him, and I said, “Do you think you’ll need that final hospital?” And they actually didn’t need it. We built a lot of beds, so I appreciate it from the governor. And we saved building a hospital in New York. We did, I think just a spectacular job at the Javits Center, and even sending the ship up became, we brought it into COVID, but they didn’t really need, it. It didn’t get much use, but it was there and ready.
<16:59>
It wasn’t supposed to be used for that purpose. We changed it into that purpose, and it was there, ready, willing and able. Same with Javits, but they didn’t quite need the beds that we produced. So we produced almost 2,900 beds. And I think I’d rather tell you that we were over-prepared than we were under-prepared. And that was a good faith effort by New York. I have to say that. A very good faith effort, but it’s nice that we didn’t need that instead of needing it. It was not very occupied. But it was ready to go. It’s still there should something happen, but I think they have it under very good control. As you’ll hear from our experts today, we’ve already built sufficient testing capacity nationwide for states to begin their reopenings, and I think you’ll be hearing a lot about reopenings in the coming weeks and months. Most excitingly in the coming weeks, I think you’re going to see some very, very dramatic steps taken, and very safely. We’re putting safety first. We may be opening, but we’re putting safety first.
<18:11>
And when you look at the numbers, when you look at the possible number of deaths at 2.2 million people, and it could have very well been that. It could have been more. Frankly, I’ve been looking at numbers where it could have been higher than that. 2.2 million people dying. If you figure we lost 500, 000, maybe 600,000 in the Civil War, 2.2 million people, a minimum, if we did nothing would have been 1.6. If you cut that in half, you’re talking about 800,000, 900,000, a million people dying, but we did a lot of work, and the people of this country were incredible, I have to say. And I think we’re heading to the other category. And that would be if we did work, and if it was successful, they had between 100,000 and 220,000, to 240, 000 on the upside. And I think we’ll be substantially hopefully below the hundred number. And I think right now we’re heading it probably around 60, maybe 65,000. And one is too many. I always say it, one is too many. This is a horrible thing that happened to our country.
<19:19>
This is a horrible thing that happened to 184 countries, all over the world, it’s a horrible thing and there was no reason for it. It should never ever happen again. In a few minutes, you will be hearing from Dr. Redfield, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Burks, and Admiral Giroir to explain these facts in really great detail. Earlier this week, the FDA authorized two new antibody tests, which is very exciting, that will determine if someone has been previously infected with the virus, bringing the total to four authorized antibody tests already. This will help us assess the number of cases that have been asymptomatic, or mildly symptomatic. And support our efforts to get Americans back to work by showing us who might have developed the wonderful, beautiful immunity. Ultimate victory in this war will be made possible by America’s scientific brilliance. There is nothing like us. There is nobody like us, not even close. I wish I could tell you stories what other countries, even powerful countries say to me, the leaders, and they say it quietly, and they say it off the record, but they have great respect for what we can do.
<20:35>
And our country is at a point, a few weeks ago, think of it, four or five weeks ago, we were at a level that nobody had ever attained, the best job numbers we’ve ever had, the best economy we’ve ever had. Every company virtually was doing better business than ever before. The stock market was at all time highs, and then one day they said, you got to close it up, and we did the right thing. We saved maybe millions of lives by doing it the way we did it, but we’re paying a price, but that price is very unimportant compared to the number of lives we’re talking about. The NIH and others are conducting clinical trials of 35 different therapies and treatments. Therapies being so exciting to me, because that’s really like if something happens, you’re going to get better, reasonably quickly, and without such a horrible deal as some people have to go through. To that end today, NIH announced that it is launching a public-private partnership with more than a dozen biopharmaceutical companies, their HHS, FDA, CDC and the European Medicines agency. They’re all working together.
<21:52>
We’re working together with a lot of other countries. The partnership will marshal and coordinate the vast resources, knowledge, assets and authorities of more than a dozen organizations and agencies to accelerate development of the most promising therapies and vaccines. The vaccines are coming along really, really well. Johnson and Johnson is very well advanced, and one thing is, we’re having great, great success, but we have to test them, and it takes a long period of time. It takes probably over a year, unfortunately, but therapy’s likewise are coming along very, very well. Therapies are immediate. When we get that, that’ll be a big day. We’re also equipping our medical warriors on the front lines. In total, we have the Project Airbridge, and the Airbridge has been incredible. The National Strategic Stockpile, and every other channel the federal government has deployed. If you think about this, 44.5 million N95 masks, nearly 524 million gloves, 63.5 million surgical masks, and more than 10 million gowns, and we have 500 million masks coming in very soon, between manufacturing and orders. 500 million masks. The last few months have been among the most challenging times in the history of our nation.
<23:21>
This invisible enemy is tough, and it’s smart, and it’s vicious, but every day we’re getting closer to the future that we all had been waiting for. I talk about the light at the end of the tunnel. We are getting very, very close to seeing that light shine very brightly at the end of that tunnel. And it’s happening, and I want to thank everybody in the room. I actually want to thank some of the media. We’ve had some fair coverage, some really fair coverage, and I appreciate it. What I’m going to do is I’m going to introduce our great Vice President, Mike Pence, and he’s going to take over for a little while. I’m going to leave, and I’m coming right back, and we’ll take some questions. They’re going to go over our tremendous testing capabilities, and again, I’ll be right back. Thank you. Thank you very much.
<01:14:38>
He did well, they all did well I think. I’ll bet they did. Please, go ahead.
<01:14:50>
Who said this?
<01:15:06>
Well, I think we do have a sobering guidance, but I think some things are too tough. And if you look at some of the states you just mentioned, it’s too tough. Not only relative to this, but what they’ve done in Virginia with respect to the second amendment is just a horrible thing. They did a horrible thing, the governor, and he’s a governor under a cloud to start off with. So, when you see what he said about the second amendment, when you see what other states have done. No, I think I feel very comfortable. Go ahead.
<01:15:43>
No, but I think elements of what they’ve done are too much. It’s just too much. You know the elements because I’ve already said, but certainly a second amendment and second amendment having to do with the state of Virginia. What they’ve done in Virginia is just incredible. Okay, please.
<01:16:12>
These are people expressing their views. I see where they are and I see the way they’re working. They seem to be very responsible people to me, but they’ve been treated a little bit rough. Please, in the back.
<01:16:52>
Well, we’re seeing great numbers in almost every state. We’re seeing big drops. We’re really seeing in terms of beds, the numbers we have to look at are the beds, the beds being occupied, which is essentially people going in. That means that you have fewer people that are sick, fewer people that feel they have to go to a hospital and those numbers are dropping really precipitously. So, I think that we’re just seeing a lot of good signs. Now, a place like New York, New Jersey, and certain parts of Louisiana. Louisiana has been incredible lately when you look at that drop, that drop has really been great. Michigan’s had a hard time, but it’s starting to do well, so I just think Illinois is another one. You look at some of the numbers but everyone is dropping and they’re dropping rather quickly. We don’t have any hotspot that’s developed, other than we did have a meatpacking plant or two where incredibly you saw the number was rather incredible that took place in that plant. People could ask about that. I wonder who owned that company. It was a weird situation, but generally speaking it’s been very good. The numbers have been really improving greatly. Please, in the back.
<01:18:28>
The Obama administration gave them a grant of $3.7 million, I’ve been hearing about that. And we’ve instructed that if any grants are going to that area, we’re looking at it literally about an hour ago and also early in the morning. We will end that grant very quickly, but it was granted quite a while ago. They were granted a substantial amount of money. We’re going to look at it and take a look, but I understand it was a number of years ago, right?
<01:18:58>
What did you hear the grant was made?
<01:19:01>
2015? Who was president then, I wonder? Okay. Yes, ma’am?
<01:19:19>
Well, I think it will certainly… It’s going to get us to a point that’s going to be rather beautiful. We think that that will be the point and it could be they want more, but maybe at a certain point we’re going to stop. It’s been a tremendous success. It’s been executed flawlessly. SBA has done a very good job, but the banks have done a great job. Whether it was Bank of America or Wells Fargo. The community banks have been incredible. I think we had over 4,000 community banks. A lot of people didn’t know you had that many banks, but 4,000 community banks, they gave the money out. It’s so organized and it’s been such a great program and so essentially, we’re waiting for $250 billion. The Democrats are refusing to do it. This is money that essentially is going to the workers. It’s going to keep these companies whole. Restaurants and a lot of great companies, and it’s a small amount of money relative to what it represents because it represents small businesses. It represents them staying in business. And when you look at it, people don’t know, small businesses represent approximately 50% of the power of our business enterprises. Not all the big monster businesses that you read about every day. It’s all of these small businesses when added. It’s something that should be approved by the Democrats, the Republicans want it badly and the people want it very badly.
<01:20:42>
Sure.
<01:20:50>
No, they would get that, but they have to approve an… Nobody knew it was going to be the successful. Don’t forget, when you say the money’s gone, it’s been a tremendous success as a program. People, they really want it and some people won’t be able to keep their-
<01:21:03>
People, they really want it, and some people won’t be able to keep their business open unless they get that money. It’s been a tremendous success. It’s been executed flawlessly. It’s been… I mean, with few exceptions, it’s really been good, and I think the Democrats are going to do it. Look, Nancy Pelosi, she’s away on vacation or something, and she should come back. She should come back and get this done. I don’t know why she’s not coming back. The fact is, she’s not doing her job and there’s nothing unusual about that for her. Go ahead.
<01:21:32>
So they are thinking about hospitals, and hospitals… <crosstalk 01:21:36> Well, hospitals are a good thing. Hospitals have been decimated by this. They’ve given up their business, which is good because they did the right thing in order to take care of the COVID-19, and no, hospitals, I’m with that all the way. If they want to add hospitals, we could also add it into phase four if we do a phase four. Phase four would be hopefully infrastructure. A lot of people are talking about the best thing we could do for this country would be the payroll tax cut that I’ve been suggesting. A lot of Democrats like it, believe it or not.
<01:22:09>
The payroll tax cut. And Art Laffer who’s tremendous… He’s a tremendous… In fact, he recently got the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Economist. He was with Ronald Reagan, and he’s been… He looks like he’s 25 years old, but I think you might be a little bit older than that. He looks so great. But Art Laffer said the single best thing you can do is the payroll tax cut, and I would just about agree with that, and I’d like to see that. I’m not sure that we’re going to get that, but I think that’s something that could be done. It’s simple. It’s really good for both the company that employs these people and for the people that are employed.
<01:22:45>
So we’re going to see whether that happens or not. The payroll… I put it out there, the payroll tax cut would be a tremendous incentive for this country. Steve?
<01:23:04>
Well, you know, when I listen to the press every night saying we have the most… We don’t have the most in the world deaths. The most in the world has to be China. It’s a massive country. It’s gone through a tremendous problem with this, a tremendous problem, and they must have the most. So today I saw they announced that essentially they’re doubling up on the numbers, and that’s only in Wuhan . They’re not talking about outside of Wuhan. So it is what it is Steve. It is what it is. What a sad state of affairs.
<01:23:42>
Well, we’re looking at it. A lot of people are looking at it. It seems to make sense. They talk about a certain kind of bat, but that bat wasn’t in that area, if you can believe this. That’s what they’re down to now is bats. But that bat is not in that area. That bat wasn’t sold at that wet zone. It wasn’t sold there. That bat is 40 miles away, so a lot of strange things are happening, but there is a lot of investigation going on, and we’re going to find out. All I can say is wherever it came from… It came from China. In whatever form, 184 countries now are suffering because of it, and it’s too bad, isn’t it? And it could have been solved very easily when it was just starting.
<01:24:26>
It could have been solved really very easily. Yeah, please, in the back.
<01:24:43>
Well I’m just saying, it’s less than one percent, and the snafus are very minor.
<01:24:52>
No, they were 80 million payments, went out over a period of a few days, and they caught certain mistakes that they made, but this is a tiny amount of mistakes. I can tell you, mistakes are made in government where wrong countries were signed. Okay? 80 million… This has been a tremendous success, and any mistake that was made, they’ve been caught, and it’s less than one percent. That’s a very good percentage, I can tell you for government. I mean, how about the Obama website, The Obamacare website, where they spent five billion dollars on building a website that you could have built for peanuts? Okay.
<01:25:33>
Yeah. Anything that was sent out… It’s like sometimes you send a check to somebody wrong. Sometimes people are listed. They die, and they get a check. That can happen. You’re talking about… I guess the number is about 80 million people. Yeah, sure. We’ll get that back. Everything we’re going to get back, but it’s a tiny amount. They’ve done a fantastic job. This was done in a matter of a few days. Yeah.
<01:26:06>
Well, I hope we can do rallies. It’s great for the country. It’s great spirit. It’s great for a lot of things. To me, it’s a tremendous way of getting the word out. If you look at our success rate, we’ve had tremendous success. We win where we have rallies, including endorsements of candidates. Our success rate is I think unparalleled. There’s nothing like it. So I certainly hope we can have rallies. We’ll find out. I don’t like the rallies where we’re sitting like you’re sitting. I mean, you’ve got many reporters outside trying to get into this room, and I come in, I’m looking at this room, and I see all this. It loses a lot of flavor. It loses to me, a lot of flavor, but I hope we’re going to have rallies. I think they’re going to be bigger than ever.
<01:26:47>
I will say this. The rallies that we were having until we had to stop with regard to the problem that we had here, the rallies were bigger than they were… I think even substantially bigger. We’d go into the biggest arena, and we’d turn away 20, 30 thousand people sometimes, and in one case, I think they said in New Jersey we had 175,000 people show up for an arena that holds 9,000 people. And they showed up. And the reporters even reported that. That was almost shocking to me. But I hope we can resume rallies, because I think they’re an important part of politics actually.
<01:27:35>
Well, I think the businesses are going to, and I think now we’ve given the businesses a real jolt, a real positive jolt. They’re able to keep their employees… Without the employees, if the employees leave that area, if they leave, who knows where they’re going? Or if they get another job maybe someplace else, you’re not going to have the same business. So we gave them money to hold their employees. They’re going to do that. We hope we can do $250 billion more. It’s absolutely so inexpensive compared to what it represents, and we hope that’s going to happen, but I think… I really think… Look, you see it with the stock market. T
<01:28:10>
he market was up seven or eight hundred points today, and if you would have told me that we would have a virus the likes of which this world has not seen since 1917, which was the Spanish flu, where anywhere from 75 to 100 million people were killed, and that we’d have a stock market that’s not far below its all time high… And it’s starting to get a little low. You know, then you had a thousand point increase and a 1,200 point increase. So now, we have a stock market that’s at a point where it’s not very far away from where it was, and we’ve gone through literally a closed country. Remember this also. I mean, we have had a closed economy.
<01:29:00>
We had the best economy anywhere in the world by far. We had the best economy we’ve ever had. And remember this, the dollar is very strong, and dollars, strong dollars are overall very good, but it does cause problems. It’s harder to sell outside of the country, et cetera, et cetera. It’s a little harder for manufacturers. Sometimes it’s a lot harder. Everybody wants to invest in our country. Everybody wants… And you know, we’re paying almost zero in interest, in some cases, zero. We’ve never had that before. People want the safety of our country.
<01:29:31>
But if you would’ve told me that our market was where it is today, and today we had almost I guess more than a 700 point increase, and we’re at a point which is… It’s not what it was, but it’s not that far off. I would have told you that’s got to be an impossibility. The reason that is, is because there is a great pent up demand. This country’s going to come back and it’s going to come back strong. We have to get rid of the virus. We’ve got to open up our country. We’re going to open it up in quadrants. We’re going to open it up as states. Some of the states should get together, and they should work on their own borders and everything because you don’t want to have people pouring through a border of a state that isn’t infected, and you have people coming perhaps outside.
<01:30:11>
That’s one of the reasons I was asking Tony two days ago about masks. Well, why in Wyoming or Montana would they have to wear masks, their numbers are very good? The reason, if somebody comes from outside, which is very severe, but it’s again… And it’s going to be up to them. It’s a recommendation, but we’ll see. But if you would’ve told me how well we’re doing after we went through the worst event of its kind since 1917, it’s pretty amazing. Question please.
<01:30:52>
The schools will be open too, very soon.
<01:30:59>
Yeah. It’s a good question. I think the schools are going to be open soon. I think a lot of governors are already talking about schools being opened, and we do have to take care of our seniors, because we’ve learned a lot about this disease. We’ve learned… Call it a disease. We’ve learned a lot about this plague, and we have to take care of our seniors. We’re going to take care of a lot of people, but I think the schools are going to be open sooner rather than later. And I understand, and I’ve spoken… Some governors are already talking about thinking about getting the schools open. I have a young boy who goes to school. I’d like to see him go to school.
<01:31:29>
As good as home is, it’s very nice, but we’d like to see him go to school. Please.
<01:31:48>
Well, they’re going to have soon, but they’re very very very… What they’ve done is very powerful in terms of… You could get the same result out of doing a little bit less. What they’ve done to some people is very unfair. In Virginia, I’m going above and beyond what we’re talking about with this horrible plague. They want to take their guns away. Okay? They want to take their guns away. That’s the second amendment. That’s Virginia. You have a governor who really… I guess he should be under siege. He seems not to be. If he were a Republican, he’d be under siege, but he seems to have escaped something that was pretty bad, including what he said about birth, including what he said about many different things.
<01:32:32>
But he wants to take… If you take a look at what’s going on in Virginia, they want to take away second amendment rights, and that’s what they want to do. So when you talk about liberate or if you talk about a liberation, you could certainly look at Virginia as one. Go ahead. Anybody else?
<01:32:52>
Well, I don’t want to go. I want to leave it to the governors to make that decision. We’re watching very closely. If we see something happening bad that we think is wrong, we’re going to come down very strong on that, very very strong. The federal government has a lot to say. We have a lot to say beyond what anyone understands, and we think, and I’ve gotten to know many of the governors, many Democrats too. It’s Republicans, and I knew the Republicans. I knew some of the Democrats, but I got to know a lot of them. I think it’s going to be in the hands of a lot of good people.
<01:33:25>
I think a lot of good people are looking at this, and they want to do what’s right Steve.
<01:33:35>
Well, they’d rather not have me travel. I think I’ve been in the White House, I don’t know, for months. I don’t know what it is, but it’s for months. Other than I did leave to say goodbye to our beautiful ship. Right? The Comfort, as it left Virginia, when it got out of dry dock. It got out of maintenance very early. It was supposed to be there for four weeks. It was there for a few days. Literally, we got it up to New York. I mean, they didn’t need it like… Well, I wouldn’t say we hoped. I’m glad they didn’t need it. They didn’t need it. That was a good thing. They didn’t need the convention center, 2,500 beds, or depending on your definition, 2,900.
<01:34:13>
We ultimately converted it to COVID. The Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA, the job they did was incredible, but that’s a sign that they’re making progress in New York. If you look at that, we built it, it was ready. It’s there now. It’s ready. We converted it to COVID. It wasn’t supposed to be for that, at the request of frankly our side. Then ultimately, we converted it, but there is much less demand. That’s such a good thing. I mean, I’m not complaining about that. I think it’s a great… That means New York’s making progress.
<01:34:47>
He’s going to Colorado? I think he’s going to the Air Force to make the commencement, correct?
<01:34:54>
Oh, I think it’s great. I think it’s great. If he’s going to make the commencement… I hear they’re going to have a very spread out crowd.
<01:35:01>
They are going to be a… I will say, they are going to be socially very good. They’re going to be very far apart. That’ll be very interesting. I think I’m going to watch that one. No, they’re going to be… They’re going to have a good spread, a good distance apart. I spoke to Mike about it. No, I think making the commencement speech, I’m doing it at West Point, which I look forward to. I did it last year at Air Force, I did it at Annapolis, I did it at the Coast Guard Academy, and I’m doing it at West Point, and I assume they’ve got it, and I understand they’ll have distancing. They’ll have some big distances.
<01:35:39>
So it’ll be very different than it ever looked. Do I like the look? No, I don’t. And eventually, next year they’ll have a commencement which will be like it’s been, like when people like this, our great admiral has done such a great job… When he graduated from where he graduated… Me too. We’re nice and tight. And that’s going to happen again. I don’t want people to think that this is going to be like this forever, but for a period of time, we’re going to have to keep it that way. That includes baseball games and football games and other things, but eventually as this virus goes away, it’s going to be better and better.
<01:36:16>
Director, it’s going to be better and better, and we’re going to get our lives back to the way they were. You know, one thing that bothers me, a couple of restaurateurs called, and they said, “Sir, I barely made a living with 150 seats. Now if I do what they want me to do, I’ll be down to 25 seats, and I can’t.” I said, “Yeah, but you’re not going to be there forever.” And he didn’t really know that. He thought that they were going to take 150 seats, move it down to 25 to 50 seats, depending on the way he laid it out. I said, “Don’t worry about it. Eventually, you’re going to be back to the scene that you used to have, which was…”
<01:36:51>
Look, I could tell you about… And I’m not going to do it because I didn’t want to bring it up, but I could tell you about events that took place, and I said things like, “You’ll never do that again,” or, “You’ll never do this again.” I don’t even want to mention the events. I don’t want to mention what you’re supposed to be doing because… And you know, one of them was so horrible. I said a certain industry will be out of business, never happen again. Two weeks later it was like nothing ever happened.
<01:37:18>
Hopefully, we get rid of this. We have tremendous talent up here and all over, including governors, including local governments, state governments. I look forward to the time, to me, when we can really normalize. But normalizing is being back to where we were. Yeah, please. Go ahead.
<01:37:49>
So I just made a deal with China, where they’re going to put in $250 billion of product. They’re going to be buying 250… 50 from 40 to 50 billion in pharm. I want to see what’s happening with China. I want to see how they’re doing on it. Are they fulfilling the deal, the transaction? We have a lot of discussions going on with China. Let me just put it this way. I’m not happy. Okay? I’m not happy, and I spoke to them, and this could have been shut down a long time ago. They knew it, and we couldn’t get in, and in all fairness, World Health couldn’t get in, and that’s why I wish they took a different stance.
<01:38:31>
They took a very pathetic stance and a very weak stance, but they say they couldn’t get in. But ultimately, they got in. They got in much sooner than anybody, but they didn’t report what was happening. They didn’t report what was happening inside of China. No, I’m not happy with China. Yeah, please.
<01:39:05>
Want to go?
<01:40:19>
And I will say this, I’m very very satisfied with the decision we made. Listening to experts, listening to my gut, the feeling of the vice president and really many others when we put it all together are very… Look, if we didn’t do what we did at the time, we could have lost more than two million people. I really believe that. I could show you charts of other places that gave it a shot, and they’re not doing well. And I would show it to you right now. I don’t want to embarrass anybody, but they gave that a shot. That’s an automatic. I mean, everybody would say let’s do that until they sit down and start thinking.
<01:40:39>
And we could’ve lost more than two million people. We could have lost more than two million. It could have been much more than that, by the way. We have one that says from 1.6 to 2.2, but it could have really been more than that. But I looked at one in particular, one country in particular that is using the herd mentality and not working out very well. Now, with all of that being said, we have to get back to work. We’ll be crossing lines very soon in many cases. In some cases, we’re well on the way down. In other cases, we’re right at the top and heading down. We’re heading in the right direction.
<01:41:37>
I saw some numbers from New Jersey, which was having a very tough time. It started… He’s doing a terrific job, the governor, Phil. Phil Murphy. Starting to get some really good signs. I looked at some of the New York numbers. They’re starting to get… They’ve been devastated obviously, but some really good things are starting to happen. So if we would’ve done something different… First of all, it would not have been sustainable. You would have had people… They would have been furious at you and me and everybody up here.
<01:42:10>
It would not have been sustainable, because you look at some of the hospitals as an example, a certain hospital right near where I grew up in Queens, and you had body bags all over the floor of that hospital. You know the one I’m talking about. All over the floor of the hospital. Now, multiply that times 12 or 15, because that’s the kind of numbers you’re talking about. 12 or 15. And it would not have been… It would not have been… There would’ve been an insurrection. Nobody would’ve understood that, whereas right now, nobody can be blamed, and there is no blame.
<01:42:48>
We’re all in a situation that was caused, that should’ve been solved long ago. It could have been solved probably very easily. Look, this is a tough enemy, but probably very easily if a certain country did what they should have done. And we’re just starting to learn those facts. But what we did was the right thing. What we did was the right thing. With that being said, we want to get back, and we want to… We’re going to be opening up states.
<01:43:15>
They’re being opened by very capable people. It’s also point of sale as they say in a different business. It’s the point… They’ll be able to look at where the testing is taking place. We’re going to help them with the testing. We’ve developed some tremendous tests over the last little while, and we’re going to work with the states, and we’re going to help them. But they know every inch of land in their states.
<01:43:36>
I watched the governor of Arkansas, Asa. You saw that. I thought he was terrific. I watched to the governor of Oklahoma over the weekend being interviewed. He was terrific. They’ve done it a little bit differently, and they’ve done it tight, and they’ve done it strong, and they were very prepared, and they had more beds than they needed, and that’s a good thing. But I’ve seen some very very good things, and I think you’re going to have some very positive events taking place over a very short period of time.
<01:44:02>
And I think with that, we’ll see you tomorrow. But really this has been… This has been a situation where a lot of great people have been involved, and a lot of great decisions have been made. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
