<00:00>
We’re here to provide an update on the unprecedented testing capacity developed by the United States, the most advanced and robust testing system anywhere in the world by far. This afternoon I’ll also announce new steps that we’re taking to make test even more widely available. To battle the virus, my administration marshaled every resource at our nation’s disposal, public, private, military, economic, scientific and industrial all at your disposal. We launched the largest manufacturing ramp up since the second world war, there has been nothing like it since. At the center of this industrial and scientific mobilization, was the development of our coronavirus testing capabilities. In the span of just a few short months, we’ve developed a testing capacity unmatched and unrivaled anywhere in the world, and it’s not even close. This is a core element of our plan to safely and gradually reopen America, and we’re opening and we’re starting and there’s enthusiasm like I haven’t seen in a long time. Every American should be proud of the amazing array of talent, skill and enterprise our nation has brought to this challenge. In three months, the FDA has authorized more than 92 different tests, and over 9 million have been performed here in the United States. Three weeks ago, we were conducting roughly 150,000 tests per day, now we’re doing approximately 300,000 tests per day, a 100% increase, and it will go up substantially from that number. This week the United States will pass 10 million tests conducted nearly double the number of any other country, we’re testing more people per capita than South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Sweden, Finland and many other countries, and in some cases combined.
<01:50>
On Friday, the FDA authorized coronavirus antigen test, an alternative testing technology that can be much more readily manufactured. Quidel Corporation, which makes this newly authorized point of care test estimates that it will be able to manufacture 150,000 tests per day, immediately increasing to 300,000 tests per day within just a few weeks. To further expand our nation’s testing capabilities, this afternoon I am announcing that my administration … and we’ve got this all approved, it’s all done, is sending $ 1 billion to America states, territories and tribes. So, this has all been approved, we’ve gotten it done completed, the money is going out. This major investment will ensure that America continues to conduct more tests than any country on earth by far. I said from the beginning that the federal government would back up the states and help them build their testing capability and capacities, and that’s exactly what’s happened.
<02:56>
This partnership has truly flourished, we have really had a very good relationship with the states and the governors and other representatives within the states. A relationship I think I can honestly say has not been seen in this country for many, many years. The governors and us are working together very closely, not only in testing but on ventilators where we have a capacity that’s at this point virtually unlimited, and we’re sending ventilators, as you probably heard from other countries, we’re sending many, many thousands of ventilators to other countries because they’re in tremendous need. I think building up a lot of Goodwill, but much more importantly than that we’re saving a lot of lives. Most states are now doing a great job. My administration allocated 5,000 machines and 700 labs across all 50 states, and governors have learned how to maximize these testing resources.
<03:54>
The federal government is also supporting states with vital supplies, quick approvals of new tests, and one on one coaching from the team here at the White House on how to increase capacity and increase it very quickly. In recent weeks, we’ve held multiple conference calls with every state, as well as with DC and Puerto Rico. We jointly developed testing projections and goals for each state for the month of may altogether, totalling 12.9 million tests, think of that 12.9 million tests. Today I’m announcing that my administration will provide the collection supplies to help states meet their targets and meet them rapidly. During the month of may, FEMA and HHS will be delivering 12.9 million swaps to states nationwide. We already have them, the delivery will be very quick. We’re prepared to provide millions of additional swabs if any state is on a pace to surpass its goal and their goals are very high. We’ve set them very high, we’ve told them to set them very high.
<04:56>
My administration will also provide approximately 9 million transport media, which are used to transfer swabs to the lab processing, a complicated process, but we’ve made it simple. As a result of these actions, every single state will be able to test more people per capita in May alone than South Korea has tested in four months since the outbreak began. This major commitment is possible because of the massive mobilization of American industry, including Puritan Medical Products, U.S. Cotton, Abbott Labs, and Thermo Fisher. Some of these incredible companies produce rapidly for us, and their products are here with us this afternoon. These are all different products that were literally just developed, and if you can imagine that, and these are the best machines and the best equipment anywhere in the world and other countries are calling us and we’re trying to work as much as we can, not only on ventilators, but also with testing.
<05:56>
My administration also continues our tireless effort to expand testing in the most underserved communities through our partnership with the private sector, leading pharmacies and retailers are now operating over 240 testing sites across the country, and that’s in addition to all of the other sites that we have working, 70% of these sites are located in communities with unique vulnerabilities. There will be more than 300 sites by the end of this week, and retailers are making plans to open up hundreds and hundreds more locations within the next 30 days. These additional sites are helping us ensure access to testing in every community. My administration is fighting relentlessly to protect all citizens of every color and creed from this terrible virus, the invisible enemy.
<06:46>
In addition to vast amounts of testing supplies, my administration has partnered with the private sector to coordinate the delivery of more than 90,000,095 masks, and these are of the highest quality. Many are made right here in the United States, a capacity we didn’t have it all at the beginning. 126 million surgical masks, likewise many are made here, 9 million face shields, 21 million surgical gowns, 993 million gloves and 10,690 ventilators, we’re building thousands of ventilators and numerous plants all across our country, it’s incredible actually. This global pandemic has inflicted great pain and hardship on our people, it should have never been allowed to happen, it should have been stopped at the source. We mourn for every life the virus has claimed, and we share the grief of all of you who have lost a loved one, and that goes worldwide to many, many countries, 184 countries at least.
<07:52>
Thanks to the courage of our citizens and our aggressive strategy, hundreds of thousands of lives have been saved, and we have saved. If you look at on a per 100,000 basis, we’re at the best part of the pack right on the bottom, Germany and us are leading the world. Germany and the United States are leading the world, lives saved per a hundred thousand. In every generation through every challenge and hardship and danger, America has risen to the task. We have met the moment and we have prevailed. Americans do whatever it takes to find solutions, pioneer breakthroughs and harness the energies we need to achieve a total victory. Day after day we’re making tremendous strides with the dedication of our doctors and nurses, these are incredible people, these are brave people, these are warriors.
<08:45>
With the devotion of our manufacturing workers, food suppliers, and lab technicians, and with the profound patriotism of the American people, we will defeat this horrible enemy, we will revive our economy and we will transition into greatness. That’s a phrase you’re going to hear a lot because that’s what’s going to happen. We’re going into the third quarter and we’re going to do well. In the fourth quarter, we’re going to do very good, and next year, I think we’re going to have one of the best years we’ve ever had because there’s a tremendous pent-up demand. It’s a demand and I’m feeling it, I’ve felt things a lot over my life, and I’ve made a lot of good calls. It’s a demand like I don’t think I’ve ever seen. There’s a pent-up demand, there’s a spirit in this country like few have seen.
<09:34>
I think you can say, and we’ve helped a lot of the countries, a lot, really a lot. There’s a tremendous spirit all over the world to beat this terrible, terrible thing. But we’re transitioning to greatness and the greatness is going to be on the fourth quarter, but it’s really going to be next year, and it’s going to be a year like we’ve never had before. I really believe that as good as we’ve done and we’ve done great, we had the best economy in the history of the world, not just here, but anywhere in the world, you can talk China, you can talk any other country, we had the best economy anywhere in the world. We were going for numbers where there was unemployment numbers, where we had our best numbers, employment also numbers, little different where we had our best numbers, almost 160 million people. All of that, we had the greatest stock market numbers ever. I think we had 142 days where we set records in a short period of time, 152 days, we set records in the stock market.
<10:38>
We rebuilt our military, all built in the United States. All of our equipment built $1.5 trillion plus. On the Southern border, the wall is being built, it’s being built rapidly. Now you don’t hear the opponents talking too much about the border, they don’t like to talk about it because it seemed that we were right on a lot of things. One of the things we are right about, one of the many things was the border, we have a very powerful border now. We had one of the best weeks in the history of our border between the United States and Mexico, our Southern border. We had very few people coming in very, very few, almost record low numbers. The wall is being built, it’s up to 181 miles already.
<11:22>
It’s being built, it’s being built rapidly. People don’t talk about it anymore because it’s very successful, and the area where the wall has built, that is a lot still, but we want to be up to 450 by very short period of time. Early next year, we should be up to 450 and very shortly after that over 500 miles to be completed, but it’s had a tremendous impact. But again, we’ve had the best numbers, the last thing we want now with this pandemic is for people to come across our Southern border. Again, we’re doing record numbers, meaning record low numbers. So I just want to thank everybody, and I want to introduce Admiral Giroir, if you could please come up and Brad, if you would, Brad Smith. They’re going to do a little explaining as to what we’ve done with regard to testing and how successful it’s been. Then we’ll take some questions after that. Thank you very much.
<23:08>
Thank you very much, Brett. Maybe you’ll both stay there. Could be some questions. Okay. Please, John, go ahead.
<23:45>
I don’t think the system broke down at all, and one person tested positive, surprisingly, because the previous day tested negative, and three people that were in contact, relative contact, who, I believe they’ve all tested totally negative, but they are going to, for a period of time, self isolate. So that’s not breaking down.
<24:04>
It can happen. It’s the hidden enemy. Remember that. It’s the hidden enemy. So things happen, but the three tested negative. The one who tested positive will be fine. It will be absolutely fine. Yeah, John? Yes?
<24:23>
Well, I think, we have a lot of people in the White House, and we had one, basically we had one person. So we had a lot of people that work here. This building is shocking if you looked at the numbers, and it’s also tremendous numbers of people coming in. Normally, you wouldn’t do that, but because we’re running a country, we want to keep our country running. So we have a lot of people coming in and out.
<24:44>
Many of those people, most of those people are tested, depending on what portion of the Oval Office area they’re going in. Everybody coming into the President’s office gets tested, and I felt no vulnerability whatsoever, John. But the two people, as I said, and three people are, they have been tested and it’s negative, and there’ll be probably out of quarantine very quickly. Okay? John?
<25:20>
Very soon. I mean, really very soon. It’s an interesting question, because normally you would have said that you are not tested and you would have been knocking us for not getting tested. So if we get tested, it’s a problem, and if we don’t get tested, it’s a problem. But I like the way your question was phrased better this way, because it is a positive.
<25:39>
We are tested. We have great capability. You look at all of these machines here. They’re incredible machines, the best anywhere in the world. No place in the world has this kind of equipment. Other countries are calling, sophisticated countries, and they’re calling, lots of countries, and we’re trying to make as much as we can available to them because there’s nothing like what we’ve been able to do in literally a couple of months.
<26:04>
What they’ve been able to do, the private sector, how they got it done. This is a five to 15-minute test, as an example, the Abbott Laboratories test. These tests are highly sophisticated, very quick, very good. This is things that didn’t even exist a short while ago. So we do have a great testing capability at the White House. We’re doing it, and I think generally speaking, we had a call with the governors the other day, generally speaking, without exception, they were all extremely happy with what’s going on with respect to their testing. Okay?
<26:46>
We’re leaving that up to the governors, as you know, and if we see something wrong, we’ll call them out and we’ll stop it, but we are leaving it up to the governors. Some are being not aggressive enough in my opinion, and some are being a little bit aggressive, but they’re being very careful. And the people of the country, they’ve learned a lot over the last two months. They’ve learned about social distancing and washing your hands and other things that we’ve all learned and talked about. They’ve learned about, I see everybody, just about everybody, has a face mask on. They’ve learned about face masks, the good and the bad, by the way. It’s not a one-sided thing, believe it or not.
<27:20>
But our country has learned. Our country has been incredible. And you see the numbers. They’re dropping very substantially. The numbers are dropping around our country very, very substantially. So we leave that, John, up to the governors, and I think they’re making a lot of good decisions. We’ve had, as I said, a great relationship with governors, Democrat and Republican. And I think overall they’re making very good decisions. Nobody in this group. All the ones behind the rope. That’s interesting. Please.
<28:02>
No, we’ve prevailed on testing is what I’m referring to. That was with regard to testing. You never prevail when you have 90,000 people, a hundred thousand people, when you have 80,000 people as of today, when you have the kind of death you’re talking about, when you have potentially millions of people throughout the world that are dying, that’s not prevail.
<28:26>
What I’m talking about is we have a great testing capacity now. It’s getting even better. There’s nobody close to us in the world, and we certainly have done a great job on testing, and testing is a big, is a very big, important function. By the way, some people consider it more important than others, to be honest with you, but testing certainly is a very important function, and we have prevailed. We have the best equipment anywhere in the world. Okay, please. Yeah. Please, go ahead.
<29:06>
So what else is new with China? What else is new? Tell me. I’m not happy with China. They should have stopped this at the source. They could have stopped it right at the source. So now you’re telling me their hacking. So I just say this, Steve, what else is new? We’re watching it very closely.
<29:37>
No, not at all. Not even a little bit. No. I’m not interested. We signed a deal. I had heard that too. They’d like to reopen the trade talk to make it a better deal for them. China has been taking advantage of the United States for many, many years, for decades, because we had people at this position right here where I’m standing, sitting right in that office, the Oval Office, that allowed that to happen. No, I’m not interested in that. Let’s see if they live up to the deal that they signed. Okay? Please, go ahead.
<30:18>
Well, we’re talking about that with a lot of different people. I want to see a payroll tax cut, I want to see various things that we want, I want the workers to be taken care of, but we are talking about that. We’re negotiating with the Democrats. We’ll see what happens.
<30:34>
But as I said, it’s a transition and this is really going to be, in my opinion, we’ll see, but I think it’s going to be something that’s going to be very special. It’s a transition to greatness, and greatness is next year, right from the beginning. I think we’re going to do fantastically well.
<30:52>
I view the third quarter, as I said, as a transition quarter. Could be pretty good, but a transition quarter. Toward the end of the fourth quarter, you’re going to see some numbers that are going to be tremendous, I think, and next year, you’re going to have potentially the kind of numbers that you saw before and maybe even better because there is that pent-up demand.
<31:13>
A lot of people wanted to do things. They were ready to do things, and they’ve had to hold back because of the virus. So I think you’re going to have with that pent-up demand, a phenomenal year next year, unless somebody messes it up by coming along and raising taxes, doubling, tripling, quadrupling your taxes, like a certain party, namely, the Democrats want to do, you’ll mess it all up.
<31:36>
You know, we had the greatest in the world. I presided, this administration presided over it. It got great for a reason and we’ll do it again and we’ll do it again very quickly and very easily. I see that happening. Yes, ma’am. Please.
<32:03>
Well, if they’re a certain distance from me, or if they’re a certain distance from each other, they do. In the case of me, I’m not close to anybody. I’d like to be close to these two gentlemen, they’re hardworking, great men, but they just said, “Frankly, let’s keep it this way.” So obviously in my case, I’m very far away from everyone. But if you look at all of those people over there, every one of them, from what I see, these are White House staffers, they’re White House representatives, they’re White House executives, and everybody has a mask on. We’ve had just about everybody I’ve seen today has worn a mask. Yeah.
<32:41>
Yeah, I did. I did. I required it. Yes. Please, go ahead.
<33:00>
Well, it’s a true statement already. We have more testing than any country in the world by far, but I’ll let Admiral go into a little bit of the future.
<34:33>
Phil?
<34:33>
Go ahead.
<34:42>
Yeah.
<34:47>
And you know what, if we didn’t get the tests, if we did no tests in the White House, you’d be up complaining, “Why aren’t you getting tests for the White House?” See, we can’t win. Because if we didn’t get the tests, you’d be up… I understand you very, better than you understand yourself. And frankly, if we didn’t get tests done, you’d be up complaining about the fact that we didn’t have the tests done.
<35:05>
Now that we’re doing so well on tests and so quick and so fast, five minutes, et cetera, and so accurate, you’re complaining that we’re getting too many tests. So you can’t win. Go ahead, Phil.
<35:34>
Well, when you say some,, so we have a person. And the person, something happened right after a test was done. Three other people met that person, came into relative contact, very little contact, and they’re self-quarantining. That is not exactly not controlling it. I think we’ve controlled it very well. We have hundreds and hundreds of people a day pouring into the White House. It’s a massive office complex, including the very large building right behind us that you know so well.
<36:04>
So I think we’re really doing a very good job in watching it. And I think it’s very well-contained, actually. And part of the reason, it is because of all the tests we’re able to give, but it was one person and the other people were only people that are quarantined. You understand this field, they’re quarantined for a specific reason. The reason is they were in the general proximity of the one person. And the one person I believe will be fine in a very short period of time.
<36:36>
Well, that I’m going to have to ask that he will give you that information. Whatever he is proceeding and doing, he will give you that information. I’ll make sure that they put out a notice. John, go ahead, please.
<37:04>
Yeah.
<37:14>
Yeah. We’re seeing that all over the world now with young children, very, very tiny percentage, but it’s still, it’s the swelling and the skin rash. And we’re looking at that very closely. John. It’s a phenomena that’s just been brought to everyone’s attention a couple of weeks ago. Admiral, you may have something to say about that.
<39:05>
Well, again, it’s a tiny percentage, but you’re right. So we’re looking into it very strongly. And the Admiral, as he said, he’s known about this for long before this happened, but it is a very, very small percentage. And people recover from that. The children recover from that, right?
<39:50>
We’re studying that very closely. And it’s a been on the radar for weeks, actually, because we’ve seen this for quite a while, but it’s been very rare. But we’re, we’re looking at it very closely. It’s very important to us. I think one of the things we’re most proud of is this just came out, deaths per 100,000 people, death. So deaths for 100,000 people, Germany and the United States are at the lowest rung of that ladder. Meaning low is a positive, not a negative. Germany and the United States are the two best in deaths per 100,000 people. Which frankly, to me, that’s perhaps the most important number there is. Please, go in the back, please.
<41:07>
Well, the Vice President, first of all, has been tested and he’s negative. And was tested yesterday, tested today. And he’s negative. He’s in very good shape. And I think that that’s going to be fine. As far as Americans getting a test, they should all be able to get a test right now. They should be able to get a test. That’s the problem with a question like that. We go through a whole announcement saying we’re number one in the world by far, by a factor of two and even three and four, depending on where you’re looking. And I get a question. “When will everybody be able to get tested?”
<41:37>
If somebody wants to be tested right now, they’ll be able to be tested. As far as the incident in Georgia, I think it’s horrible. And it’s certainly being looked at by many people. I’m speaking to many people about it. He looked, I saw the picture of him and his tuxedo, it was so beautiful. He looks like a wonderful young guy would have been a wonderful, just a wonderful guy. I think it’s a horrible thing. I think it’s a horrible thing.
<42:05>
Now, with that being said, as you know, they’re studying the case very carefully. They’re interviewing everybody involved and we’ll see what happens. To me, it’s a very sad thing. I spoke to a number of people that are very much involved in it. I’ve been following that one very closely. It breaks your heart to watch it. It breaks your heart. And certainly the video was… it was a terrible looking video to me. But you have a lot of people looking at it and hopefully an answer’s going to be arrived at very quickly. But it’s something that is heartbreaking.
<42:42>
Go ahead.
<42:53>
Yeah. Well, I saw the tape and when they moved left, I don’t believe, when they moved left outside of the tape, nobody saw what was going on. It’s an empty spot on the tape. Now do they have additional tapes? I hope, but I will say that it’s something that based on what I saw, doesn’t look good. Somebody that I have a lot of respect for is Senator Scott of South Carolina. You know who I’m talking about? He’s a great gentleman. He’s a great Senator, he’s a great gentleman, Tim Scott. And I called him two days ago. I said, “Tim, what do you think? Tell me, what do you think?” He’s very disturbed by it. He’s very disturbed. And I’m very disturbed, also. Please, go ahead.
<44:02>
No, we just wanted to make sure we had the proper machinery, apparatus and everything else out there before people started wasting money. So method of saving money. We wanted to make sure we had even things like this. Plus they have machines that are far more complex than this. They have massive machines at some of the laboratories that can do millions of tests. We wanted to make sure everything was in place. Okay, go ahead.
<44:43>
Well, I think that if you look at Pennsylvania, as an example, if you look at various other states, I won’t get into them, the people want to go back. The numbers are getting to a point where they can and there just seems to be no effort on certain blue states to get back into gear and the people aren’t going to stand for it. They want to get back. They’re not going to stand for it. They want our country open. I want our country open too. I wand it open safely, but I want it open.
<45:11>
Don’t forget, people are dying the other route. You can go with the enclosed route. Everything’s closed up, you’re in your house. You’re not allowed to move. People are dying with that too. You look at drug addiction, you look at suicides, you look at some of the things that are taking place. People are dying that way too. You could make the case it’s in even greater numbers. So it’s a situation that some people, and I’ve noticed that some states could be moving more quickly. And also at the same time, safety. Look, safety is paramount, but people are dying in the lockdown position too. And everybody understands that. They’re just starting to find out. And look at what’s going on with drugs and look at what’s happening with suicides. Yeah, please, please go ahead.
<46:20>
Well, excuse me, the numbers are way down from what they were two weeks ago. The numbers are really coming down and very substantially. This weekend was one of the lowest we’ve had. The numbers are coming down very rapidly all throughout the country, By the way, there may be one exception. But all throughout the country, the numbers are coming down rapidly. I think you see that, Admiral.
<46:53>
Well, the models haven’t been exactly accurate. These are models done by a lot of think tanks. A lot of universities. You look at some of the models they’ve been way off. A few of the models have been accurate. But as far as the models are concerned, if you go by the model, we were going to lose 2.2 million people. And because we mitigated, we did things that were very tough for our country to do, frankly. We had to turn off our whole magnificent economy. We had to turn down the whole country. We’re at the lowest of all of the models. If you look at that 100 to 120, 000 people would be at the low side and we’re at… there’s nothing low. Look, nothing low. One is too many people.
<47:39>
And I say it all the time. One person to lose for this is too many people. It’s a disgrace what happened. But if you look at the models, we’re at the lowest of those projections. But the models are not models done necessarily by the White House, they’re models done by many people all over the world. And if you take the most respected of those people, many of those models are wrong…
<48:03>
The most respected of those people, many of those models are wrong, I mean, they’ve been wrong as far as the U.S. is concerned because those numbers are nowhere near what was projected, potentially.
<48:15>
You know what, I don’t want to think about it even. I know that we’re doing everything we can, we’re doing a good job. We acted very early. We acted extremely early in keeping China out of our country and banning people from China coming in, other than our citizens, which we obviously had to take and they were quarantined or watched carefully, they were tested, they were watched very carefully. But we had about 40,000 people coming in from China, from Asia and we had to obviously take the people. Can you imagine if I said, you’re a U.S. citizen, we’re not going to take you. That doesn’t work. But they were very carefully … I was with Ron DeSantis, he said, literally put the people that came in from China in quarantine for a substantial period of time.
<48:58>
No, that was a big decision. I think we saved hundreds of thousands of lives by acting very early. And when I did this, I think the Admiral can say it, everybody was against my doing it. Everybody, everybody was. The professionals, the doctors, I was pretty much by myself on that one and it was a lucky thing we did it because we saved hundreds of thousands of lives. Yeah, please go ahead.
<49:38>
Well, I would certainly consider that. I will mandate it if you’d like I would, I think it’s important to do. And I think frankly, some of the governors were very lax with respect to nursing homes. It was obvious right from the beginning of the state of Washington, where 26 or 28 people died very early on. And I would have said nursing homes and I did say nursing homes. That’s what they should. Now some of the states, many of the states are doing that, but I think all of the states should be, they have the capacity to do it. They should be doing nursing home. That is a real vulnerability.
<50:22>
No, not at all. I’m only aware of people that saw them were tested. The tests were negative and they’re quarantining anyway. Please, go ahead.
<50:46>
Well, first of all, the job he’s done on task force, the job he has done frankly, as the Vice President of the United States has been outstanding. And he’s a warrior too, just like doctors and nurses, I mean he is working so hard and he’s coming into contact with a lot of people, but again, he tested negative so we have to understand that. But he comes into contact with a lot of people. It’s something probably during this quarantine period we’ll probably talk about. I have not seen him since then, but I would say that he and I will be talking about that. Yeah, we could talk on the phone. Please.
<52:32>
Go ahead, Bill.
<52:52>
Obamagate, it’s been going on for a long time. It’s been going on from before I even got elected and it’s a disgrace that it happened. And if you look at what’s gone on, and if you look at now all of this information that’s being released. And from what I understand, that’s only the beginning. Some terrible things happened and it should never be allowed to happen in our country again. And you’ll be seeing what’s going on over the coming weeks. And I wish you’d write honestly about it, but unfortunately you choose not to do so. Yeah, John, please.
<53:24>
You know what the crime is, the crime is very obvious to everybody. All you have to do is read the newspapers except yours. John, please.
<53:43>
Yes.
<53:51>
Well, I going to have the Admiral … but I will say just from listening and hearing like you do, we all do, not should get a test because they have to have certain things. And they’re going to know when they’re not feeling right. Those are the people that will be getting the test, but Admiral, I’ll let you take it from there, please.
<55:29>
And John, the numbers are coming way down and they’re coming down rapidly and that’s a beautiful thing to see. And that’s pretty much universally all across the country. They’re coming down very rapidly so very important. Please go ahead.
<56:51>
And the meat packing plants now are doing very well. There’s great testing around those plants. And we’re finding out who had the problem, they’re being quarantined. And the meat packing is moving along very nicely, but they were trouble spots. They were hot zones definitely, please. One thing I think is very important though, John, just to finish, we have now, and nobody says it, they just don’t want to write it, by far more tests than any other country in the world not even a contest. And the quality of our test is the best anywhere in the world. That’s very important to say, please go ahead.
<59:29>
If people want to get tested, they get tested. We have the greatest capacity in the world not even close. If people want to get tested, they get tested. But for the most part, they shouldn’t want to get tested. There’s no reason, they feel good, they don’t have sniffles, they don’t have sore throats. They don’t have any problem. If they do feel there’s something happening, they have the absolute easy. In fact, Ron DeSantis, Florida, the governor is doing a fantastic job in Florida. He said, he’s got a little bit of the opposite problem. He’s got so much testing that people sit around and wait for people to come in. That they have a great overcapacity for testing. And there are numerous other states that have told me the same thing. That’s by the way, a good problem, not a bad problem, okay. Yeah, go ahead please.
<01:00:22>
Yes.
<01:00:33>
Well, they’re losing their lives everywhere in the world. And maybe that’s a question you should ask China, don’t ask me, ask China that question, okay. When you ask them that question, you may get a very unusual answer. Yes, behind you, please.
<01:00:53>
I’m telling you.
<01:00:54>
I’m not saying it specifically to anybody. I’m saying it to anybody that would ask a nasty question like that.
<01:00:59>
Please go ahead.
<01:01:01>
Okay, anybody else? Please go ahead in the back please.
<01:01:09>
No, it’s okay, we’ll go over here.
<01:01:09>
Next, next please.
<01:01:13>
I did and you didn’t respond and now I’m calling on the young lady in the back, please.
<01:01:19>
Okay, ladies and gentlemen thank you very much, appreciate it.
<01:01:23>
Thank you very much.
