<01:36>
Thank you very much everyone. Our country is in the midst of a great national trial, unlike any we have ever faced before. You all see it. You see it probably better than most. We’re at war with a deadly virus. Success in this fight will require the full absolute measure of our collective strength, love, and devotion. It’s very important. Each of us has the power through our own choices and actions to save American lives and rescue the most vulnerable among us. That’s why we really have to do what we all know is right. Every citizen is being called upon to make sacrifices. Every business is being asked to fulfill its patriotic duty. Every community is making fundamental changes to how we live, work and interact each and every day, and I wouldn’t be surprised to see this going on long into the future when this virus is gone and defeated.
<02:44>
Some of the things we’re doing now will be very good practice for the future, including for not getting the flu, which is very devastating also. So some of what we’re learning now will live on into the future. I really believe that shaking hands or not shaking hands, washing hands all the time, staying a little apart. 15 days ago we published our nationwide guidelines to slow the spread of the virus. On Sunday, I announced that this campaign will be extended until April 30th. In a few moments, Dr. Birx will explain the data that formed the basis for our decision to extend the guidelines and Dr. Fauci will explain why it’s absolutely critical for the American people to follow the guidelines for the next 30 days. It’s a matter of life and death, frankly. It’s a matter of life and death.
<03:46>
I know our citizens will rise to the occasion and they already have sacrificed a lot. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country. We’re the greatest economy in the world. We had the best unemployment numbers and employment numbers that we’ve ever had by far, and in one instant we said we have no choice but to close it up. Just as Americans have always done, they will do a job like few have seen before and they’re proud to do it. And I see that there’s a great pride going on right now. Before we hear from our experts, we have a few other announcements.
<04:28>
Today, the Treasury Department and Small Business Administration announced further details on the paycheck protection program, which was made possible by the $2 trillion relief bill I signed into law last week. Nearly $350 billion in loans will soon be available through lending partners to help small businesses meet payroll and other expenses for up to two months. These loans will be forgiven as long as businesses keep paying their workers. This includes sole proprietors and independent contractors. Applications will be accepted starting this Friday, April 3rd. So on Friday, April 3rd, that’s when it begins.
<05:13>
Earlier today, I spoke with leading internet and phone providers who are doing a tremendous job of keeping our internet and the lines of communication flowing under very strongly increase strain the businesses more than anybody has seen before because everyone’s inside. They’re all making calls. Among the leaders I spoke to were Hans Vestberg a Verizon Communications, Randall Stephenson of AT&T, Mike Sievert of T-Mobile, Thomas Rutledge of Charter Communications, Brian Roberts of Comcast, John Malone of Liberty Media, Dexter Goie of Altice, Michel Combes of Sprint, and Aryeh Bourkoff of LionTree. Also Pat Esser of Cox Communications and Jeffrey Storey of CenturyLink. They’re doing an incredible job. If you look at other continents, if you look at Europe, they went a different route than we did and a much different route. We were talking about that just a little while ago, and they are having tremendous problems.
<06:32>
Other countries are having problems, other continents are having problems, but with business at a level that nobody’s seen it before on the internet, it’s holding up incredibly well. And they expect that to continue no matter what happened, and no matter how much more gains, which it can gain more than it already is, I don’t know because they’re setting records. Let me also update you on the distribution of urgency needed resources and supplies and we have a lot of numbers. I’m going to let Mike Pence speak to that in a little while, but we’re giving massive amounts of medical equipment and supplies to the 50 states. We also are holding back quite a bit. We have almost 10,000 ventilators that we have ready to go. We have to hold them back because the surge is coming, and it’s coming pretty strong, and we want to be able to immediately move it into place without going and taking it.
<07:35>
So we’re ready to go. And we’ve also distributed, I just spoke with governor of Michigan, had a great conversation and we sent a large number of ventilators to Michigan. We’re sending them to Louisiana. We sent additional ventilators to New York, additional ventilators to New Jersey. And I will say in New York, FEMA is supplying 250 ambulances and 500 EMTs to help respond to the increasing case load. That’s a lot of ambulances. In California, the Army Corps of engineers is developing eight facilities to expand hospital capacity up to 50,000 beds, 50,000. And had a great conversation last night with Gavin Newsom, he’s doing a really good job. We’re in constant communications. The USNS Mercy hospital ship is now operational. It’s in Los Angeles and receiving patients. And in New York, as you know, the Comfort, everybody watched that. It’s in place and it will be in a very short while receiving large numbers of patients over a thousand rooms and 12 operating rooms.
<08:56>
FEMA has also provided a hundred travel trailers to assist with housing needs and we’re ordering hundreds more. In Michigan, FEMA will soon deliver in addition to the ventilators, 250 bed, field, hospital, and Army Corps of engineers is evaluating locations to build alternate care facilities. So we’re doing a field hospital in Michigan of 250 beds and we may be doubling it up soon depending on the need. They’re doing a good job with beds in Michigan, but they may need more than the 250, so FEMA and the Army Corps of engineers are prepared to go there quickly and get it done. In Louisiana, we’re delivering two field hospitals to provide 500 new hospital beds. I’ve been talking with the governor, John Bel Edwards and the Army Corps of engineers has been really doing incredible work establishing 3000 alternate care site at the New Orleans Convention Center, which will be operational, believe it or not this week.
<10:06>
So we’re doing the 3000 bed alternate care site and we’re also doing a 500 bed new hospital, and that’s in Louisiana, which really got hit. It started off very late and it was looking good, and then all of a sudden it just reared up, came from nowhere. In addition to the supplies we’re delivering, we’re also giving hospitals the flexibility to use new facilities, including surgical care centers to care for hospital patients who are not infected. For example, I know that many expectant mothers are understandably concerned about exposing their newborn babies to the virus and they should be/ with our action yesterday, hospitals now have the authority to create special areas for mothers to deliver their babies in a very safe and healthy environment. Totally separate.
<11:03>
Over the past two months, the US State Department has organized one of the largest and most complex international evacuation operations in American history. Mike Pompeo is working around the clock along with Ambassador O’Brien. Since January 29th, we have successfully repatriated over 25,000 Americans from more than 50 countries where they were literally stuck. In some cases, locked in. And I salute the incredible public servants at the Department of State as well as their counterparts at DHS and HHS who have played such an important role in doing this. You probably read about the young people in Peru, and young people in Brazil, and they were absolutely stuck and we got them out. Almost everybody is out now back home with their parents, their wives, their husbands.
<12:06>
I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead. We’re going to go through a very tough two weeks. And then hopefully as the experts are predicting, as I think a lot of us are predicting I after having studied it so hard, you’re going to start seeing some real light at the end of the tunnel, but this is going to be a very painful, very, very painful two weeks. When you look and see at night the kind of death that’s been caused by this invisible enemy, it’s incredible. I was watching last night, Governor Murphy of New Jersey say 29 people died today, meaning yesterday, and others talking about numbers far greater, but you get to know a state, I know New Jersey so well. And you hit 29 people and hundreds in other locations, hundreds in other states. And this is going to be a rough two week period.
<13:05>
As a nation, we face a difficult few weeks as we approach that really important day when we’re going to see things get better all of a sudden. And it’s going to be like a burst of light. I really think and I hope that our strength will be tested and our endurance will be tried, but America will answer with love and courage and ironclad resolve. This is the time for all Americans to come together and do our part. I appreciate a lot of the media. We’ve had a lot of really good things said. I think only good things can be said when you look at the job that’s been done. I just spoke with Franklin Graham who is an extraordinary person and a Samaritan’s Purse has been like so many others just been amazing and so fast. They did it so fast. He’s been doing that for a long time, but I think people are really seeing what they have done. Franklin Graham, very special family.
<14:13>
As we send plane loads of masks and gloves and supplies to the communities battling the plague, and that’s what it is. It’s a plague. We also send our prayers. We pray for the doctors and the nurses. For the paramedics and the truck drivers, and the police officers, and the sanitation workers. And above all, the people fighting for their lives in New York and all across our land. I watched as doctors and nurses one into a certain hospital in Elmhurst this morning. I know Elmhurst, Queens, I grew up right next to it. I know the hospital very well, been seeing it all my life, my young life.
<14:57>
And I will tell you that to see the scenes of trailers out there and what they’re doing with those trailers, they’re freezers and nobody could even believe it. And I spoke to some of my friends, they can’t believe what they’re seeing. And I watched the doctors and the nurses walking into that hospital this morning. It’s like military people going into battle, going into war. The bravery is incredible, and I just have to take my hat. I would take my hat if I were wearing a hat, I’d rip that hat off so fast and I would say “You people are just incredible.” They really are. They’re very brave. They’re going in and they don’t know, you have lots of things flying around in the air, you don’t know what you’re touching. Is it safe?
<15:56>
And you also see where your friends are going to the hospital and you say “How is he doing?” Two days later and they say, “Sir, he’s unconscious.” Or “He’s in a coma.” So things are happening that we’ve never seen before in this country. And with all of that being said, the country’s come together like I’ve never seen it before, and we will prevail, we will win, and hopefully it will be in a relatively short period of time. With that, I’d like to ask Dr. Birx to come up and show you some of the latest data that has been, I think brilliantly put together. And right after that I’m going to ask Dr. Fauci to speak, and Mike Pence is going to give you some of the recent events that have taken place and some of the statistics that we have that I think will be very interesting here. Thank you very much. Please.
<24:15>
Thank you.
<28:00>
Thank you.
<35:15>
Well, are they reasonably good? I guess we could say that, I’d like to have maybe Dr. Fauci or Deb come up and say, but I have numbers, but I’d rather have them say the numbers if you don’t mind. It’s a big question.
<40:49>
But some of the cities are doing very well, as you see, very well at this early stage, but the number, the doctor said 100,000. All numbers between a 100,000 and 200,000 maybe even slightly more, but we would hope that we could keep it under.
<41:23>
Well, I would, but you see, New York, I believe the blue is New York, New York is having a much harder time than other of the cities. Certain cities are doing… Actually, you look down here, an incredible job. They were early. They were very, very firm and they’ve done an incredible job. This is New Jersey, New York. This is…
<41:56>
I think they’re doing very well with the <inaudible 00:41:56>. <crosstalk 00:41:58> Yes.
<42:27>
I can only say that we’re doing more than anybody in the world by far. We are testing highly accurate tests. These are tests that work, as you know, many tests are being sent to countries that are broken.
<42:39>
Well, every day we get, and the word is exponential, we are getting more and more and more, and now we have the new tests that you saw yesterday. That’s going to be rolled out, I think, tomorrow or the next day, and that’s going to take only a few minutes, literally a few minutes to see the result and it’s a highly accurate result. I mean the tests were given out not by us, by other countries, where there was a 50/50 chance that it was wrong. What kind of a test is that? These are highly accurate tests, but the new tests that are coming out are very quick and they were just developed. Abbott Labs did the one yesterday. So we’re doing more than anybody in the world by far and they’re very accurate tests, and we’re getting a lot of information from those tests. <crosstalk 00:43:23>
<52:09>
And they’re not being reported.
<52:55>
And it’s up to the people if they don’t send them back. I mean, they use them. They don’t send a back. Doctor, go ahead, please.
<53:40>
Well, it says-
<53:45>
It says between 100 and 200,000.
<53:46>
It says 100 to 200,000, anything, it’s a lot of people. Right? It’s a lot of people. Well, you didn’t ask the other question. What would have happened, because this is the question that I’ve been asking Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx for a long time, and they’ve been working on this for a long time. The question is what would have happened if we did nothing? Because there was a group that said let’s just ride it out. Let’s ride it out. What would have happened? And that number comes in at 1.5 to 1.6 million people, up to 2.2 and even beyond. So that’s 2.2 million people would’ve died if we did nothing. We just carried on our life. Now I don’t think that would’ve been possible because you would have had people dying all over the place. This would not have been a normal life. How many people have even seen anybody die? You would have seen people dying on airplanes. You would’ve been seeing people dying in hotel lobbies. You would have seen death all over.
<54:40>
So I think from a practical standpoint, that couldn’t have been carried out too far. But if you did nothing on the higher side, the number would be 2.2 and maybe even more, and on the lower side, 1.6 million people.
<57:53>
Just to end the last topic <inaudible 00:00:57:55>, I think I can say this because I spoke to Dr. Birx before, and to Dr. Fauci, for whatever reason, New York got off to a very late start, and you see what happens when you get off to a late start. New Jersey got off, and I think both governors are doing an excellent job, but they got off to a very late start. When you look at Washington state, if you remember, that all started in a very confined nursing home, and you had 20 some odd people, I believe dying in one home. That doesn’t mean it escaped that home, and so they have a very different statistic than other states. But I mean, I remember it very vividly, the nursing home in Washington state, where you had many people dying every day, people were dying in the one exact location, so they were able to keep that relatively speaking into that location.
<59:01>
They are very sobering. Yeah, when you see 100,000 people and that’s at a minimum number. Now what we’re looking at, and as many people as we’re talking about, whatever we can do under that number and substantially under that number, we’ve done that through really great mitigation. We’ve done that through a lot of a very dedicated American people. That 100,000 is, according to modeling, a very low number. In fact, when I first saw the number, and I asked this a while ago, they said it’s unlikely you’ll be able to attain that. I think we’re doing better than that. Now I think, we have to see, but I think we’re doing better than that because as John said, that would be a lot of lives taking place over a relatively short period of time. But think of what would have happened if we didn’t do anything.
<59:48>
I mean, I’ve had many friends, business people, people with great, actually common sense, they said, “Why don’t we ride it out?” A lot of people have said. A lot of people that thought about it, ride it out, don’t do anything, just ride it out, and think of it as the flu. But it’s not the flu. It’s vicious. When you send a friend to the hospital and you call up to find out how is he doing, it happened to me, where he goes to the hospital and he says goodbye, he’s sort of a tough guy, a little older, a little heavier than he’d like to be frankly, and you call up the next day, how’s he doing, and he’s in a coma. This is not the flu. So we would have seen things had we done nothing. But for a long while, a lot of people were asking that question, I think, right?
<01:00:35>
I was asking it also. I mean, a lot of people were saying, “Well, let’s just ride it out. This is not to be ridden out, because then you would’ve been looking potentially 2.2 million people or more, 2.2 million people in a relatively short period of time. If you remember, they were looking at that concept, it’s a concept I guess, you know it’s concept if you don’t mind death, a lot of death, but they were looking at that in the UK, remember? They were very much looking at it and all of a sudden they went hard the other way, because they started seeing things that weren’t good. So they put themselves in a little bit of a problem. Now, Boris tested positive and I hope he’s going to be fine, but in the UK, they were looking at that, and they have a name for it, but we won’t even go by the name. But it would have been, it would have been very catastrophic, I think, if that would’ve happened.
<01:01:33>
But that was something that everybody was talking about, Steve. Like, just don’t do anything, don’t do anything. Forget about everything. Just ride it out. They used the expression, ride it out. We would have had at a minimum 1.5, 1.6, but you would have had perhaps a more than 2.2 million people dying in a very short period of time. And that would have been a number that the likes of which we’ve never seen.
<01:01:58>
So now when we look at our package that we just approved for $2 trillion, all of a sudden it seems very reasonable. Right? When you’re talking about 2 million lives, all of a sudden it seems very reasonable. I must say, a lot of people that have been seeing the more advanced numbers, because these are much more advanced numbers now. You know when you first started, we didn’t know, and this was a different kind of a virus, and nobody knew that much about it, even the experts, you don’t really know where it’s going. But then they see what goes on in Italy, and they see what goes on in Spain, and you see France is having a very hard time, and other countries having a very, very hard time. But once they see what’s going on, they start making projections. So I hope they’re going to be very high projections. But based on everything else, that would be the number. Let’s see if we can do much better than that. I hope we can. Yeah, John.
<01:02:56>
That’s right. <crosstalk 01:02:57> Well, it’s this way. You know, you can use a scarf. A lot of people have scarfs and you can use a scarf. Scarf would be very good, and my feeling is if people want to do it, there’s certainly no harm to it. I would say do it, but use a scarf if you want, rather than going out and getting a mask or whatever. We’re making millions and millions of masks, but we want them to go to the hospitals. I mean, one of the things that Dr. Fauci told me today is we don’t want them competing. We don’t want everybody competing with the hospitals where you really need them. So you can use scarfs. You can use something else over your face. It doesn’t have to be a mask, but it’s not a bad idea, at least for a period of time. I mean, eventually you’re not going to want to do that. You’re not going to have to do that. This is going to be gone. It’ll be gone, hopefully gone for a long time. <crosstalk 01:03:49> Please.
<01:03:58>
Well, we’re going to find out. We hope it’s enough. We hope it’s enough. We hope we’re at a level where we could say, “Let’s go because our country wants to get back to work.” We really want to get back. Everybody wants to get back to work. Now, I could ask the doctors to answer that question, but we discus that all the time. What do you think?
<01:04:19>
Well, I think we’ve been very harsh. I mean, you look at the streets. I looked at 5th Avenue today on camera, and I didn’t see anybody walking on the street, and I’m used to watching that street, you can’t see the asphalt, you can’t see the concrete, and you look and there’s nobody. There was one car. It looked like it might’ve been a taxi cab and it was in a time of the morning that there’d normally there’d be a lot of people. I mean, I think the mitigation has been very strong. Please.
<01:04:54>
I didn’t do anything about tariff payments. I don’t know who’s talking about tariff payments. They keep talking about tariff payments and we haven’t done that. China’s paying us. We made a deal with China. Under the deal, they’re paying us 25% on $250 billion and they pay it. And I spoke with President Jinping the other day and we didn’t mention that. We had a great conversation, by the way, a really productive conversation having to do with many things. Most of it was on the virus, but you know, we’re not talking… Who are you with? Who are you with?
<01:05:27>
Who are you with?
<01:05:29>
Oh.
<01:05:33>
Yeah, I know, it’s an incorrect report. Well, that might be, but I’m going to have to approve the plan <crosstalk 01:05:37>, but one thing I will tell you, I approve everything and they haven’t presented it to me, so therefore it’s false reporting, so therefore don’t do the story. If we’re going to do something, I’d be glad to let you know. There’s nothing wrong with doing it, but, we’ll let you know. Yeah, please. A couple of back, then we’ll get back to you, John.
<01:06:25>
Different kind of a state, also great Governor, knows exactly what he’s doing, has a very strong view on it, and we have spoken to Ron. Mike, you want to just to tell him a little bit about that.
<01:07:49>
So, unless we see something obviously wrong, we’re going to let these governors good. Now, it’s obviously wrong, I mean, people can make things, they can make a decision that we think is so far out that it’s wrong, we will stop that. But in the case of-
<01:08:03>
So far out that it’s wrong, we will stop that. But in the case of Governor DeSantis, there’s two thoughts to it, and two very good thoughts to it, and he’s been doing a great job in every respect, so we’ll see what happens. But we only would exercise if we thought somebody was very obviously <inaudible 01:08:16> Go ahead. Your turn.
<01:08:35>
We did. We had a call that was probably about that, the oil prices, because as you know, Russia and Saudi Arabia are going at it, and they’re really going at it, and by going at it to the extent that they are, the oil has dropped to a point where, look, it’s the greatest tax cut we’ve ever given. If you look at it that way, because people are going to be paying 99 cents for a gallon of gasoline. It’s incredible. In a lot of ways, it’s going to help the airlines, but at the same time, it’s hurtful to one of our biggest industries. That’s the oil industry. It’s really, it’s not even feasible what’s going on. So I spoke to President Putin about that. I also spoke to the Crown Prince about that, Saudi Arabia.
<01:09:24>
No, I think, yeah, they’re going to get together and we’re all going to get together, and we’re going to see what we can do. Because you don’t want to lose an industry. You’re going to lose an industry over it. 1000s and 1000s of jobs. I don’t know if you know. There’s oil all over the oceans right now. The boats are all filled. They’re renting ships. Ships that were dying, that weren’t doing well, and now that’s where they’re storing oil. And they’re sent out to sea, and they sit there for long periods of time. There’s so much oil. In some cases, it’s probably less valuable than water. In some parts of the world, water is much more valuable.
<01:09:59>
So we’ve never seen anything like it. But the two countries are discussing it, and I am joining at the appropriate time, if need be. We had a great talk with President Putin. We had a great talk with the Crown Prince. We also discussed, more so with President Putin in this case, the virus, because Russia’s being hit pretty hard. And we discussed many things. Trade. We discussed a lot of things with both. But in the case of both, we very much discussed the oil and the oil prices. I mean, you look, it’s $22, but it’s really much cheaper than that if you want to negotiate. Nobody’s seen that. That’s like from the 1950s. It really is. To think that it was 50, 60, 70, 80, and now it’s 22. But you know, if you put a good bid in at nine, I think you could probably get what you wanted, right?
<01:10:54>
John, please.
<01:11:22>
Well, the problem with that one is they had maybe shovel ready jobs, maybe not, but they never used it for the purpose of infrastructure. So far, nobody has been able to find any money that was spent on infrastructure. I want to use it for infrastructure. And one of the reasons I’m suggesting it, John, is we’re paying zero interest. The United States is paying almost zero interest rate. The Federal Reserve lowered the rate, the fed rate. And that and a combination of the fact that everybody wants to be in the United States. You know, we have a dollar that’s very strong, and I know that sounds good, but it does make it hard to manufacture and sell outside, because other currencies are falling, and our currency is very strong. It’s very, very strong. Proportionately, it’s through the roof.
<01:12:05>
So we have a strong dollar. People want to invest in the United States, especially nowadays where they’re looking at safety. They have all of the problems, plus the virus at 151 countries. They all want to come into the United States. And so we have a zero interest rate, essentially. And I said, “Wouldn’t this be a great time to borrow money at zero interest rate and really build our infrastructure like we can do it?” So the plan was, the Republicans had a plan of about 750. I would say… They were where? At seven five? The Democrats were a little less than a trillion dollars. The Republicans were a little bit less than that.
<01:12:40>
And I’m suggesting $2 trillion. We redo our roads, our highways, our bridges. We fix up our tunnels, which are many of them in bad shape, like coming into New York, as you know, really bad shape. And we really do a job on our infrastructure, and that doesn’t mean we’re going to do the Green New Deal, because I won’t do it. I won’t approve it. We’re not going to do the Green New Deal and spend 40% of the money on things that people just have fun with.
<01:13:10>
We’re going to borrow the money at zero percent interest, so our interest payments would be almost zero, and we can borrow long term. People want to be in the United States. They want to be invested in the United States. Go ahead, Jim.
<01:13:36>
Right, that’s a good question.
<01:13:51>
Actually, just the opposite, because we’re holding back. We have almost 10000. And we’re holding, because we’re going to need them over the next couple of weeks as the surge goes on. You see the chart. We haven’t hit the top yet. And we have to be able to move them immediately. And we can’t take them, because it’s going to be very hard to do that. We can’t take them to places that aren’t needing them. Plus we have requests for ventilators in hospitals and in states and cities that don’t need them, in our opinion. They don’t need them. They won’t need them <inaudible 01:14:22> for flexibility. We just took 600, and we sent them to different locations today, but we have close to 10000, and we’ll be able to get them. And we’re all set to march. We have the National Guards, and we have FEMA, and we’re all set to move them to the places.
<01:14:38>
So as for your second question, what we’re going to do is save lives because of it, because otherwise, we would not be able to get to <inaudible 01:14:45> and we don’t know what the hottest spot-
<01:14:49>
In some areas we might, but we’ve done a great job with ventilators, and we’re having them made. Unbelievable, we have now 11 companies making ventilators. Now they’ll be starting to arrive in the next week, but we’ve also grabbed a lot of them. Some hospitals had more than they were saying, or at least more than we knew about, which is a good thing, not a bad thing. But we want to be able to have, I guess the word would be flexibility, so that if the surge turns out to be much stronger in Louisiana, which it could, that we can immediately bring 1000 or 2000 to Louisiana. Otherwise, we wouldn’t be able to get them. We wouldn’t be able to say, “Listen, Governor Cuomo in New York, we want to take ventilators away from New York.” And they’ll say, “Well, we can’t do that. It would be a disaster.” So we have great flexibility.
<01:15:38>
Now when this surge occurs, if it occurs fairly evenly, we’ll be able to distribute them very quickly before they need them. But we have a reserve right now. It’s like having oil reserves, except more valuable, frankly. But we have a reserve right now. And we’ll be able, and we also have a great team of people ready to deliver. They can move them fast. So when we see it going up in a certain state, and Louisiana could be one, and Michigan could be another with Detroit, because Detroit is having a lot of hard times right now. Detroit came out of nowhere, and that’s what happens with this. It comes out of nowhere.
<01:16:15>
So we are ready, Jim, depending on what happens. And we have a stockpile. And that’s why it’s called a stockpile. A lot of the ventilators and a lot of the other equipment, rather than sending it to the stockpile, we had it sent directly to a hospital, to a location, to a place, so we didn’t have the cumbersome nature of having it come in unboxed, put in and then deliver it. We have it brought, which they’d never done before. They don’t do that. Generally speaking, they don’t do that.
<01:16:42>
But we’ve had, I think, Mike, we’ve had tremendous success of doing that. That’s for other items, including ventilators, where it’s brought to the site that needs it. But we have a good supply of ventilators, and we’re ready to go. We’re all ready. We have trucks ready. We have everything ready, because as we’re saying, John, this could be a hell of a bad two weeks. This is going to be a very bad two and maybe even three weeks. This is going to be three weeks like we haven’t seen before.
<01:17:12>
Well, I think the hospitals-
<01:17:16>
Yeah. They are going to be facing a war zone. That’s what it is. I’ve heard some of the paramedics and some of the doctors. They said they’d been in war zones. They’ve never seen anything like this. You look at Elmhurst Hospital in Queens. I’ve never seen. I mean, I look, I just think it’s so, because that’s a hospital that’s near where I grew up. And it is a war zone in a true sense. Yeah, please?
<01:17:47>
They shouldn’t be doing that. If that happens, they should be calling us. Look, we have ventilators, but we’ve distributed 1000s of ventilators. But they shouldn’t be doing that. And if they need them that badly, we know. We have pretty good ideas of where they’re going to need them. Some people, frankly, think they need them, and they don’t need them. I don’t want to mention names, but there are some people that want them, and it’s really not the right thing. Then you have some people that I guess automatically hoard a little bit. They want to have more than they think they need. But a ventilator is a very precious piece of equipment right now. It’s hard to make. It takes a long time to make it. It’s complex. Some of them are like the dashboard of an airplane. I mean, they’re very complicated and very expensive machines, and some are much simpler. But we’re ready to go depending on what happens.
<01:18:38>
But we have some hospitals in some states that think they need ventilators, and we don’t think they do. Now if they do need them, we will have them there before they need them. We’ll be able to move very quickly.
<01:18:53>
Nothing that I’ve heard. I mean, that’s the first question I make every morning. I tell you, I call up, you know we have 1100. 1100 in New York right now, and we have other locations where patients, people are taking them. Now the good news is it’s only three days, and it’s like a seven or eight day treatment. The good news is we haven’t heard anything bad. In other words, there have been no catastrophic events. But we haven’t. It’s a little bit too soon to talk about it. It would be a total game changer, John, if that happened. If that happened, it would be a game changer. And we include that in that, and I think in all cases the Z-Pak, you know what the Z-Pak is. So we’re going to see what happens with the Hydroxychloroquine. <crosstalk 01:19:44>
<01:19:44>
Yeah. Just one second. Steve?
<01:19:49>
We’re looking at a lot of them. We’re looking at a lot of them. Some show promise. I think maybe the doctor might want to speak about the vaccines, because a lot of Johnson & Johnson is advanced, very advanced. We’ll see what happens. The one thing with the vaccine is it doesn’t help this group, because this group, you need to test a vaccine. The one thing with the drug you just mentioned, right, is that it’s been out. It’s a malaria drug and also an arthritis drug. So it’s been out there for a long time. Very powerful drug. But it’s been out there for a long time. So it’s tested in the sense that you know it doesn’t kill you, but you may want to discuss the vaccines for a second, Dr. Fauci.
<01:22:09>
And I have to sit in this. Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin, which is, you take it with it, maybe, if you want, for the infection. I think some medical workers are doing that. Using it, maybe, or getting it prescribed perhaps for another use. But the word is that some are, and some aren’t. I mean, I think it’s not a bad idea to do it, but that’s up to the doctors. But there is a theory going around that in our country and some other countries, people are taking, that work in the hospitals, that work with the patients, because there is some evidence, and again, it’s going to have to be proven. It’s very early. We’re rushing this stuff through. This was supposed to take a long time to be approved, and I prevailed upon the FDA to get it approved immediately on the basis that it was already in the market for a lot of years for another use, malaria mostly. And arthritis, but mostly malaria.
<01:23:08>
So we’ll see what happens. But there is a theory out there that for the medical worker, Doctor, it may work. It may work. And if you take it, it’s been out there for a long time. Please, go ahead.
<01:23:24>
About which?
<01:23:36>
Well, it’s not empty. Let me explain something. What we’re doing, I thought I said it accurately. I certainly meant to. Rather than having it brought into the stockpile, where appropriate, other than certain things, like we have quite a few of the ventilators, which is not a lot when you look at the whole country, actually. It sounds like a lot, almost 10000, but we’re trying to have supply sent directly to the states, because we save a big state. We don’t want medical supplies coming in to warehouses all over the place, and then we take them from there and bring them to another warehouse. So we’re having it brought ideally from the manufacturer directly to the hospital or the state where it’s going.
<01:24:19>
So we’re trying to keep it that way as much as possible. Now in some cases we are having it brought. Remember this. We also took over a virtually empty, and I say it again, just like we had no ammunition in the military, and we had virtually no ammunition. Well, we had very little in medical supplies, too, in our stockpile. So for the most part, we’re trying very hard to have it delivered to the site where they need it. Yeah. Please go ahead.
<01:25:02>
I’m going to let the military make that decision.
<01:25:15>
Well, we’re going to see all about that. Don’t worry about our military. You saw the military put up a hospital in three and a half days with 2900 beds, with a lot of beds. Nobody’s ever seen anything like it. And by the way, that wasn’t the only one. It wasn’t just the Javits Center. It was at other locations. And now it’s Louisiana, and now it’s New Jersey, and now it’s other places. One thing that I think is indisputable is when I watched the Army Corps of Engineers, and FEMA working with them, but when I watched the Army Corps of Engineers throw up these hospitals, and they’re complex. I mean, these are incredible buildings, essentially. Tents and various things, but they did it in such a quick, such a short period of time.
<01:26:01>
And our military is ready like you haven’t seen, and you know who are the best? The best guests are the different shows are, we watch the shows at night. And I think the best guests that I’ve seen in a long time are the military people. And they’ve never done it before. I’ve watched General Semonite, who I deal with a lot. I say, “General, you got to give us two new hospitals in Louisiana.” “Yes sir.” And the next morning, they’re building them at 6:00 in the morning, and they’re up in three days. I think they’re the best. The best guest you have. I guess I’m tired of the other guests, in all fairness.
<01:26:34>
Jim, go ahead.
<01:26:51>
Well, I’m going to let them answer that. Yeah?
<01:26:59>
Yeah, I’m going to let them answer the question, but remember this. And again, I say it and everybody says it. You know who says it better than anybody is Dr. Fauci. I had a decision to make. Maybe it was my biggest decision. China was heavily infected, and 1000s and 1000s of people were coming from China to the United States. And against the wishes, not even wishes, but they disagreed with the decision. I made a decision to stop China from coming in. Took a lot of heat, even from China. They weren’t exactly happy. I just made a trade deal, a big one, $250 billion trade deal. And I’m shortly thereafter saying, “You can’t come into our country.”
<01:27:38>
That was a big decision. That was earlier than the date you’re talking about. So that was a big decision. That was probably, and by the way, not because I did it, that was probably the biggest decision we made so far. But if you look at the one graph, the problem New York has is New York started late, but the other ones didn’t start so late. Now New York is also more complicated, because for obvious reasons, but it got a late start. But do you maybe want to answer those questions?
<01:31:09>
We would have known the same thing. We inherited <inaudible 01:31:11>.
<01:33:37>
I do believe we were very early, but I also think that we were very smart, because we stopped China. We had never done that before. You know, we had never closed our borders before, as I read. I read. I don’t know, maybe that’s not right. And Dr. Fauci had also said that was, I think it was maybe the biggest moment, because we were stopping the source. We were stopping the infection. But we also stopped Europe very shortly thereafter. That was a big decision. That was not an easy decision either. I stopped them a long time before people started stopping anywhere. So we stopped China, we stopped Europe, we stopped all of Europe. And then ultimately we stopped UK, Ireland. Yes? <crosstalk 01:34:23> In the back there, please.
<01:34:41>
Sure, please.
<01:35:27>
Yeah please, go ahead. You’re talking about the chloroquine? Is that what you’re talking about? In specifically the last question?
<01:35:34>
There are trials going on, but there are also trials going on, we’re trying them on people that are now sick. That’s a very important trial.
<01:35:47>
We’re watching whatever happens around the world. We’re watching those trials very closely. <crosstalk 01:35:53> Mitch?
<01:36:07>
Well, I don’t like to think I did. I think I handled it very well, but I guess it probably did. I mean, I got impeached. I think I certainly devoted a little time to thinking about it. Right? But think of it. It was a hoax. It was a total hoax. And when you think that I got impeached only because they had a majority in the House. They didn’t get one Republican vote. 196 to nothing. Not one Republican. I don’t think it’s ever happened. The Republicans stuck together, and they stuck together in the Senate. 52 to a half. A half. So when you say that, yeah, I think it took a lot of, I see them going and saying about speed. Well, they probably illegally impeached me in the sense that if you look at the FBI today with what happened, the horrible things, nobody cares about that now, because all they’re thinking about is the virus. And that’s okay with me.
<01:37:01>
But you look at the report that came out from IG Horowitz, it’s disgraceful what went on. It’s disgraceful. It’s a total disgrace. They got caught in the act, but you know what? We won’t talk about that now. Did it divert my attention? I think I’m getting A pluses for the way I handled myself during a phony impeachment. Okay? It was a hoax. But certainly, I guess I thought of it. And I think I probably acted. I don’t think I would have done any better had I not been impeached. Okay? And I think that’s a great tribute to something. Maybe it’s a tribute to me. But I don’t think I would have acted any differently, or I don’t think I would have acted any faster.
<01:37:46>
But the Democrats, their whole life, their whole being, their whole existence was to try and get me out of office any way they can. Even if it was a phony deal. And it was a phony deal. And it turned out, and all you have to do is look today at the FBI reports. Take a look at what the FBI did. Take a look at the people. Take a look at Comey’s report. Seven and eight pages of total kill. Take a look at that. Take a look at the reporter, McCabe. Just read it. And you’ll see how horrible it was. And you know what? I don’t think this country is going to take it. You want to know the truth. <crosstalk 01:38:26>
<01:38:36>
Yeah, well, I’ll be speaking. I’m going to be speaking. In fact, he has a call in to me. We’ll be speaking to the governor, and we’ll be speaking to him soon. But there’s a case. We have two ships. There are people that are sick on the ship, and we don’t want to be like they’re going to be ghost ships. You know, people turn those ships away. There was a ship, as you know, in a certain part of Asia and from port to port, nobody would take it. But in the meantime, you have people that are dying on the ship or at least very sick, but they’re dying on the ship. So I’m going to do what’s right, not only for us but for humanity. I mean, these are two big ships, and they have a lot of very sick people. I’ll be speaking to the governor. Let’s do just a couple more back here. <crosstalk 01:39:25> Go ahead, please.
<01:39:31>
Do you ever run out of questions, you people? It’s the most unbelievable thing. You go through the room with me. But I have nothing else to do. So if you want us. I mean, if you want. Should we keep it going, John? I think so. Let’s go.
<01:39:56>
You mean he was complaining? Say it. What did he say exactly? What did he say?
<01:40:09>
Well, he shouldn’t be complaining because we gave him a lot of ventilators. And if you take a look at the chart, it’s down. But I wish he got going a little bit sooner. But we gave him a lot of ventilators, and you know what? He has a lot of ventilators. The problem is with some people, no matter what you give, it’s never enough. It’s never enough. Like they’ll say, ” How’s Trump doing?” And you’re a Democrat. Some of them said, “Really good.” I’ll tell you, Gavin Newsom from California, who’s doing a good job by the way, and others said, “Really good.” But generally your natural reflex. “How’s Trump doing?” You ask that question to a Democrat. “Well, we don’t like it.” Oh really? You don’t like it? We’re getting very high marks, but I’m not doing this for marks. I’m doing this to save lives. When John acted, wait. When John saw the numbers and when Jim saw those numbers, they’re shocking numbers. You know, you’re talking about deaths.
<01:41:04>
Even at the low end, you were shocked. When you see 100 and 120000 and 200000 people over potentially a very short period of time, I want to save lives. I’m not doing this for any other reason. I want to save lives. But the governor of New York’s gotten, I think maybe, probably, has more than anybody has gotten. Four hospitals. He’s gotten four medical tents. He’s gotten a ship the likes of which nobody’s ever seen before other, than Los Angeles, which has the twin. I mean, we’ve done a lot, but many ventilators were sent to New York.
<01:41:40>
And Mayor de Blasio. I’m getting along with Mayor de Blasio great. And I think he’s very happy with the job we’re doing, too. We’re sending a lot of, actually Mayor de Blasio had an interesting request. He wanted people. And we’re sending medical people. A lot of people, a lot of the states, aren’t having a problem with ventilators. They’re having a problem getting medical people, and we’re sending a lot of people in. Military-
<01:42:02>
… And we’re sending a lot of people in, military, very talented people. Who <crosstalk 01:42:07>? Go ahead and then I’ll do you second.
<01:42:18>
They shouldn’t be doing what?
<01:42:22>
They shouldn’t be competing and they should call us. Wait, no, I don’t want them to compete because all they’re going to do is drive up the price. I don’t want them to compete. They should be calling us and we can work it so they get the ventilators and they get shipped directly. If they’re competing, if they’re calling, even if there’s only two of them calling, they’re going to just drive up the price. Because as nice as some of the people that do ventilators, they do want to make money. Okay? Now, you don’t get a chance to buy 16,000 ventilators, I guess they didn’t take that option. That was in 2016, and that’s a hard option to take because it’s a lot of money and who would ever think you need 16,000 ventilators? Who would ever think it? But this a very unique time in life. And I think I’m dealing with New York and we’re having a very good relationship and you see what just happened in Central Park with the tents. I mean, we’re having a really good relationship. Go ahead. You didn’t get.
<01:43:16>
Yes.
<01:43:22>
They’ve done a good job, California. Now let’s see what happens. Because we could have a spike doctors. I mean, you don’t know. They could have a spike where all of a sudden it spikes upward. We had a couple of like a Louisiana, I think they’re doing a really good job, but they had nothing. Now they had Mardi Gras and then all of a sudden after Mardi Gras, which tells you about distancing, I guess. I mean, it’s an example of what could happen, but they were like flawless. I was always surprised. I was looking at Louisiana and I understand that state. I love that state, and I’m saying they’re in great shape. Then they have Monte Gras was a big success, tremendous success, and then all of a sudden it went like a rocket ship. So that tells you about distancing. Please.
<01:44:08>
Say it again, a little louder.
<01:44:12>
Yeah, there is.
<01:44:17>
Well, they’re looking at that very strongly and I know that it’s bothers Gavin. I don’t know if it bothers Nancy Pelosi, but she’s got it in her district at a very high level. They have to be very careful. They have a very big homeless population in an area which just a few years ago didn’t have anybody in those areas, and they’re living in the streets and they’re … I know that some people in California are working on that very hard.
<01:44:53>
We’re talking about something that will be very positive for the world if we do it, we’ll see if we do it or not. Well, I don’t want to talk … It’s a private thing, but it will become public if we decide to do it, but positive. Our relationship with the president, our relationship with France is I think extraordinary. Very good. Probably as good as it’s ever been.
<01:45:28>
Well, it is.
<01:45:30>
It’s going to go away. Hopefully at the end of the month and if not it hopefully will be soon after that.
<01:45:39>
It is going away.
<01:45:43>
I think from the beginning, my attitude was that we have to give this country … I knew how bad it was. All you have to do is look at what was going on in China. It was devastation. Well, yeah, look at the numbers from China, those initial numbers coming out from China. But I read an article today which was very interesting. They say, “We wish president Trump would give more bad news.” Give bad news. I’m not about bad news. I want to give people hope. I want to give people a feeling that we all have a chance. I mean, when you saw the numbers and when John and all of you saw those numbers and you were saying 120,000 people, you mean that’s good? 100,000 dead people within a short period of time. I want to give people a feeling of hope. I could be very negative. I could say, “Wait a minute. Those numbers are terrible. This is going to be horrible.” This is a horrible thing. Hey Jim-
<01:46:49>
Well, there were a lot of people that could have said that, we didn’t say that. Fortunately I didn’t say that and that was an alternative. We talked about it. That was always an alternative. That’s what I said, “Let it rip, let it ride, do nothing.” And we could have had 2.2 million dead people more than that because I didn’t do that. And we did catch it early and we stopped China really early and we stopped Europe really early because I saw what was happening … What happened is I stopped Italy because Italy was really heavily infected. We started off with certain parts of Italy, then all of Italy. Then we stopped Spain, then I said stop Europe, let’s stop Europe. We have to stop them from coming here. Europe, I love Europe, but they were having problems. I don’t think anybody did a better job than that. Especially when you see the 2.2 million number, and I hope we’re going to be substantially under the numbers that you’re looking at on the minimum side. Then I think we will have, hey look, it’s still tremendous death-
<01:47:52>
I want to be positive. I don’t want to be negative. I have to … I’m a positive person. Somebody said, “Oh, I wish you’d be more negative.” They literally have that. It’s in one of the wonderful newspapers today. I wish you’d be more negative. Well, this is really easy to be negative about, but I want to give people hope too. I’m a cheerleader for the country. We’re going through the worst thing that the country’s probably ever seen. Look, we had The Civil War, we lost 600,000 people. Right? Here’s the thing, had we not done anything, we would have lost many times that, but we did something and so it’s going to be hopefully way under that, but we lose more here potentially than you lose in world wars as a country. So there’s nothing positive, there’s nothing great about it, but I want to give people in this country hope. I think it’s very important.
<01:48:47>
I knew everything. I knew it could be horrible and I knew it could be maybe good. Don’t forget, at that time people didn’t know that much about it. Even the experts, we were talking about it. We didn’t know where it was going. We saw China, but that was it. Maybe it would have stopped at China. We wished we could have killed it in China, but it didn’t happen. It started spreading to Europe. It started spreading here. It started spreading all over, but … And I’m not blaming anybody, I’m just saying that we have an incredible thing. I think the people, our professionals, our military, our governors, our politicians, I think they’ve done an incredible job. With few exceptions, I think they’ve done an incredible job.
<01:49:27>
But I don’t want to be a negative person. It’d be so much easier for me to come up and say, “We have bad news. We’re going to lose 220,000 people and it’s going to happen over the next few weeks.” And with that, I did start off by saying today, long before this question, I said, “This is going to be a rough two or three weeks.” This is going to be one of the roughest two or three weeks we’ve ever had in our country. We’re going to lose thousands of people.
<01:49:50>
When I see 28, 29 people from the governor of New Jersey, 29 people, when you see 173 people died in New York yesterday or whatever the number was, I think it was more than that. When you see the kind of numbers that we’re witnessing, we’ve never seen numbers like that. So it’s easy to be negative and then everybody could be negative. But I’m a cheerleader for our country, and I want to do a great job so the number can be kept … And I’ve always said it. I want as few a number of people to die as possible and that’s all we’re working on.
<01:50:31>
I don’t mind the question. I think it’s actually … I think it’s … It’s not meant to be. Look, I know you well enough, so it’s not meant to be a fair question, but it is a fair question. I think we’ve done a fantastic job. Okay, fine. I’ll, I’ll accept your word. Look, Jim. I think we’ve done a great job. We’re going to see how it comes out, but when you look at minimal numbers of 120,000 people, when you look at, it could have been 2.2 Million people died and more if we did nothing.
<01:50:58>
If we just did nothing, would’ve gone up and would it come down as per your statement, it would have been confined. It would have been a similar time, maybe even less time. It would have been violence like we’ve never seen in this country before. We had great professionals, great military, really great governors and politicians. I cannot say enough about what’s going on. And as per what you said, I think we’re way ahead of schedule in terms of numbers, I think, I hope. But if we can keep it under the minimum numbers, the country has … Not me, the country has done a great job, but I think I’ve done a really good job of mobilizing. I think Mike Pence has been fantastic. I put him in charge of the task force. We have wonderful people on the task force, Jim, wonderful people. This man was working, literally, he had days where he didn’t go to bed, he didn’t go to sleep. He called … He went 24 hours and then started the next day.
<01:51:55>
People don’t know the job he did. I didn’t even know he was that good of a manager to be honest with you, Mike. Okay? And you never know that about somebody until they’re tested under fire. But he saw it very early also. We both did. They saw it very early. They knew pretty soon. They probably knew sooner than anybody because that’s what they study. That’s what they do. Must be a depressing business, right? Let’s do a little bit depressing, but they’ve seen it all. Go ahead John.
<01:53:23>
Do you want to keep going? Go ahead, over there.
<01:53:33>
Yes.
<01:53:46>
I never say that, but Franklin Graham is somebody that’s very special. I have many very special people and a very many special in the evangelical, evangelical Christian community. You could talk rabbis, you can talk a lot of … I have tremendous support from religious leaders and Franklin Graham, I just spoke to him today for an extended period of time. I told him what a fantastic job you’re doing, and he does this. He loves doing it. He loves helping people, and he loves Jesus. Then I can tell you. He loves Jesus. He’s a great gentleman. Go ahead.
<01:54:22>
On what?
<01:55:17>
And just about masks. You can get a mask, but you can also do … I mean most people have scarves and scarves are very good and they can use a scarf and where are we talking about a limited period of time. And it says in the recommendations you can use … You can substitute a scarf for a mask. So if people feel that … And I think some people disagree with the mask for various reasons and some people don’t. But you can wear a scarf, you can do the masks if it makes you feel better. We have no objection to it and some people recommend it. Let’s go.
<01:55:54>
You people never get tired. Thank you. There’s still good questions.
<01:56:20>
You mean you people? You mean you people?
<01:56:23>
I mean, you’re pretty spread out already. I don’t have anymore … I don’t think we’ll have press conferences anymore, but-
<01:56:29>
Look, we’re very careful. I’m very careful personally, and-
<01:56:35>
We are looking at numerous countries as they get in a position. Brazil as an example, you mentioned the president. Brazil had no problem until just a short time ago and now they’re starting to get inflamed and yes, we are absolutely looking at a ban. There are two other countries you mentioned, Iran already has a band. They had sort of an automatic ban. In addition to that, they have a band. So we’re looking at certain countries as they become hot.
<01:57:12>
I wanted to go to the opening of the hospital in New York, and my people couldn’t even believe it that I said it, but I did. I wanted to go. They didn’t want me to do it. The Secret Service didn’t want me to do it for reasons I wanted to go to the boat sailing into New York Harbor. But the governor did a good job of that, and the mayor of New York. So I love to go out but not be in the white house and it’s sort of like nerve center, control center and I think it’s important. Look, you see what happened with Boris Johnson, you see what happened with others. I think it’s important that I remain healthy. I really do. So for the most part we’re staying here. I’ve canceled many different events and we’ll be staying here, for the most part.
<01:58:26>
We have it.
<02:02:27>
And I have to say this, I’ve had, in the last less than a week, three governors call up that truly have disliked me over the years. Even before I decided to run for president and they said, “I have to tell you, you’ve done a great job. You and your team have done a great job.” These are three governors respected, very respected in two cases and they said, “Like or not like, you and your team have done an incredible job.” And I think they have, I think they’ve done an incredible job. Go ahead, please.
<02:06:29>
I just want to add, I think the one thing nobody really knew about this virus was how contagious it was. It’s so incredibly contagious, and nobody knew that. This is like a … I don’t know that anybody’s ever seen anything like this. Normally you’d have to get close and touch and this. A lot of things have to happen. This is just like … It’s truly invisible and so contagious and I don’t think any doctor knew it at the time. I don’t think anybody could have known it. People have not seen anything like this.
<02:07:17>
Essentially we do. We’ve distributed thousands of ventilators and we have now thousands of ventilators and we’re buying them at a good price and we’re actually making them by the thousands. We’re making them. You saw yesterday where Ford is going to have a tremendous number, they’re looking to make 100,000 ventilators. Ford has been great. General Electric healthcare has been great. General Motors has come a long way. I have to be honest. They are working very hard. We’re making thousands and thousands of ventilators. At the end of this, and there will be, don’t say I’m optimistic, because I don’t want to … I wouldn’t want to do that, but I am optimistic. I’m a very optimistic person. Let me tell you, we will have thousands of ventilators, and what I want to do is make sure that we always have plenty for the future, but then we want to help Italy and France and other countries that you don’t even know about yet with all of the problems they have, because ventilators are very tough to come by. They’re very hard to make, they’re very complicated, they’re very expensive. Yeah, please.
<02:08:17>
You can go ahead. Go ahead.
<02:08:21>
I can’t take your interpretation of what he said, I don’t know what he said. I think he’s been reasonably generous considering he’s a Democrat and I think he’d like to run for president. So I think he’s been pretty generous under those circumstances, but he’s been very generous to me. Look, I got them ships, I got them hospitals, I got them a lot of things that he never thought …. He hit pay dirt, okay? And I’ve been very generous on ventilators. If you look, they had 2,000 and 4,000 they had thousands of ventilators in his warehouse, in their warehouse waiting to be picked up. They never picked them up. So I’d have to hear it from him face to face. And how about one more and we’ll see you tomorrow. Is that okay? Don’t say got to cut it short-
<02:09:09>
That’s right, it could be <inaudible 02:09:10> tomorrow, but you know what? In the meantime, I’m sure people are enjoying it. Now, I will say this, it’s an incredibly dark topic and incredibly horrible topic and it’s incredibly interesting. That’s why everybody is … They’re going crazy. They can’t get enough of it and they want to be careful and I guess they’re studying it for themselves. Just studying if they get it. A lot of people have it. A lot of people are positive and they hope for the best, because when this gets the wrong person, meaning a person that qualifies, generally speaking, under the list, it is ravaging. It is horrible. Go ahead. How about you, in the back?
<02:10:03>
If we do see a second wave, because I’ve heard Dr. Fauci answer this question. If we do we’re going to be, I think, very well-prepared, and the second wave won’t be like the first wave, and with that I better let him give you a little bit more to that answer because I don’t want to have him upset with me and say, “I wish you would have answered that question.” Come on doctor.
<02:11:44>
A lot of very positive things are happening with the therapeutics and drugs of different kinds and the vaccines. I think a lot of very positive things are happening. Okay, one more. Please.
<02:12:09>
I will say Mike Pence, myself, the head of FEMA, some of our generals that are working that are doing an unbeliever, we have generals that are working that are unbelievable talents, unbelievable leaders, and it’ll go through one of three or four people if it comes down to that. And I hope it doesn’t come down to that, because I think we’re very well-equipped, and it’s an honor to be here tonight. I appreciate it. I appreciate your interest. I think there is a great interest in it, and we’ll see you tomorrow. We’ll see you tomorrow. <crosstalk 02:12:42>.
