<02:23>
Why don’t you go first and then you go?
<02:55>
They’re writing a lot about Oxford. We know Johnson and Johnson as well.
<03:06>
That’s good. That’s good. Yeah. Please go ahead.
<03:20>
Well, I think it’s a beginning. I thought Tony explained it really well. It’s a beginning. It means you build on it. I love that as a building block, just as a building block, I love that. But certainly, it’s a positive. It’s a very positive event from that standpoint. And we’re going to be very careful as we open. A lot of people, a lot of governors are opening. I know you’re very advanced. You’re going to be very advanced in getting it going. But we’re doing it very carefully. We’ve learned a lot over the last couple of months. And if there’s a fire, we’re going to put it out. If there’s a little ember burning, we’re going to put it out. We’re going to put it out very quickly. And I think we’ve learned how to do that. There have been some areas that have really started up and we put it out very quickly. So we’ve learned a lot. Yeah, please.
<04:12>
Well, I’ll let Mike, do you want to explain what we’re doing on that?
<05:25>
Yeah, I think a way of saying it, they’ll be fading out because now the governors are doing it. I’ve had many calls from governors, governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, many, many governors, Tennessee, Arkansas. We’re speaking to a lot of different people and they’re explaining what they’re doing and I am very much in favor of what they’re doing. They’re getting it going and we’re opening our country again. Do you want to explain that please?
<06:29>
And Ron DeSantis, as you know, Governor of Florida was here yesterday. And he gave, I thought, a really good presentation of how he’s doing it, what he’s doing, how he’s opening. You might have seen it.
<06:38>
And he did a very good job, I thought.
<08:00>
Right. It’s coming in and I’m getting pieces already and we’re not happy about it and we are by far the largest contributor to WHO, World Health. And they misled us. I don’t know. They must have known more than they knew because they came after what other people knew that weren’t even involved. We knew things that they didn’t know and either they didn’t know or they didn’t tell us. Or right now, they’re literally a pipe organ for China. That’s the way I view it. So we’re seeing and we’re looking and we’re watching. And again, we give $500 million, we have over the years, from 400 to 500 for a long time, for many years. And China is giving $38 million and yet they seem to work for China. And they should have been in there early, they should have known what was going on, and they should have been able to stop it at the … You talk about stopping the spread or stopping the embers, that could have been stopped there-
<09:03>
… there, and then why did China allow planes to fly out, but not into China? But they allow planes to come out, and planes are coming out of Wuhan, and they’re coming out, they’re going all over the world. They’re go into Italy very, very big time to Italy, but they’re going all over the world, but they’re not going into China. What was that all about? So, we had-
<09:25>
You’ll hear, we’re coming up with a very distinct recommendation, but we’re not happy with it. We’re not happy with it. Even today, I’ve heard some statements that are very positive. There’s nothing positive about what happened in China having to do with this subject, nothing positive at all. And I finished a number of months ago with a trade deal, and you would’ve thought it would’ve been like somebody would have said, “Hey, they could have stopped that at the source. They didn’t have to let airplanes fly out, and loads of people come out.” And we’re lucky. As Tony said, we’re lucky that we stopped it in January, flowing into our country from China, outside of our citizens.
<10:08>
People now say, “Oh, well, you shouldn’t have let our citizens back in.” Let’s forget about that one. We’re lucky we stopped in January. A lot of people, long after that date, as you know, thought that the measure that I took was much too strong. John Bel, we’re lucky we stopped it then. We put a border, we put a ban on people coming in from China. So we’ll have a recommendation pretty soon, but we are not happy with the World Health Organization.
<10:43>
On World Health with China to follow.
<11:36>
Well, as you know, we just worked with the meat processors and, if you think about it, a form of delivery, we have tremendous product, we have ample supply, but there was a bottleneck caused by this whole pandemic and it was potentially pretty serious. And I just got off the phone with the biggest in the world, I mean, the biggest distributors there, the big companies that you’ve been reading about, they are so thrilled, they’re so happy. They’re all gung ho and we solved their problems. We unblocked some of the bottlenecks and I’m sure you’ve seen it, I’m sure you’ve heard, I spoke to them about two hours ago, signed something very important last night in terms of Defense Production Act and it was very important. They were so happy it’s like a new business for them. They were being very unfairly treated, very unfairly treated.
<12:31>
So the farmers are very happy and the ranchers and the companies that we’re talking about, you know the ones I’m talking about because they’ve all become very well known. They were well known anyway. They’re big companies but they’re now being treated fairly. They’re thrilled and that whole bottleneck is broken up.
<12:53>
We used it. That’s what we did, we used it, and it helps them greatly, greatly to do what they have to do because they’re ready to do it but they needed some help.
<13:05>
Well we’re doing that. We’re going to have a report on that probably this afternoon. We’re going to have a good form of protection and through quarantine when we find somebody that’s not. They’re going to be very careful, they are, as to who’s going into the plant and the quarantine is going to be very strong and we’re going to make people better when they have a problem. We’re going to get them better. Hopefully, they’re going to get better. We have a very good record of having people getting better. A lot of people don’t talk about that John Bel, where people go in statistically, but you don’t read about the tremendous success we’ve had. We’re just about number one in the world in terms of success. Germany’s doing well. We’re doing well. A couple of countries are doing okay, but we’re doing very well. So the statistics are very good on that. So we’re going to get them better. Yeah, Steve?
<14:23>
Tony, would this should be used in the earlier phases or in the late phases?
<14:52>
Thank you.
<15:04>
So if you look at what’s going on in the market where the market’s at 24,000, and this came from us blind, we never knew, we had the greatest economy ever in the world, in the history of the world, we had the best economy. I say it openly, nobody even challenges it, and they would if they thought it was wrong. We had the best economy ever and we’re going to have it again. What happened is, look at the market today, 24,000, above 24,000 I think Kevin, in fact, I’ll ask you to say a couple of things about that. But if you would have said that we would have had the worst pandemic since 1917 over 100 years ago with the disturbance to 184 countries at least, because that was as of last week, that a market would be where we’re at 29,000 and now we’re going to be at 24,000, and we were at a low, I think we’re having one of the best weeks.
<15:57>
We’re having one of the best periods in terms of stock market, which to me is jobs and future. I don’t view it as a stock. I view it as jobs and future. If you would have said to me that we’d be at 24,000, and we started off when I was elected, the number was much lower, much, much lower as you know, it’s called in the teens, but if you would have said we would have been at 24,000 with what we’ve gone through as a country, John Bel, it’s pretty amazing, and I think I read where this is one of the best weeks in the stock market, this last short period of time, that we’ve had since the 1950s or 1940s. So I think there’s a tremendous feeling of optimism in this country. I can only say that there’s going to be a tremendous feeling of optimism.
<16:46>
I think the third quarters transitional, we’re transiting into, but it’s a very transitional period. I think it’s going to do good, but I think the fourth quarter is going to be fantastic. I think next year all of the fruits of what we’ve all done together between the doctors and the business people and yourself, thank you very much, of course, you’re a doctor, but all of the work from the Task Force, all of the people that have worked so hard, we’re going to have a tremendous year next year and you’re going to start to see that I think in the fourth quarter. Maybe even in pieces of the third quarter, but that’s again, very transitional.
<17:32>
No, it’s about growth. It’s about growth, we’re going to be in great shape because we’re growing and we could have done it the other way. You don’t spend anything and your flat for years There are ways of looking at it. You have to throw money at it, but we’re throwing money at the people that lost their job unfairly. You saw some of the people yesterday in the White House where they were down and out and we came along and help them. So we could have been flat for a long time as a country or we could grow. I think you’re going to see tremendous growth.
<18:03>
It’s a stimulus and it’s a great stimulus. Now, they want more stimulus and they’re pushing for things though, but I don’t know that we should be working with states that have been suffering through bad leadership or bad management for 25 years, and we’re supposed to fix that. So we’re going to have to talk about that. Maybe they should have brought that up sooner.
<18:31>
I don’t know him. I’ve never spoken to him. I think he’s a very, very good man who had a very bad day and then he wanted to be Ernest Hemingway, he starts writing long memos. You can’t do that when you’re a captain of a ship, especially that ship. That’s the ultimate nuclear aircraft carrier, the best in the world, 5,000 crew members. And he decides to become Ernest Hemingway, you can’t do that. Can’t do that. With that being said, I said he had a bad day. We all have bad days.
<19:09>
Well, I don’t want to comment, but I have my feelings on it and I just think he’s a very good man who had a bad … and I think the acting secretary is a very good man also, and he had a bad day. They both had bad days, you want to know the truth? They both had bad days and that can happen. They were under a lot of pressure because it went very public and so they’ll be seeing me at a certain point, but I think he’s a very good man. I think they’re both very good men. But when you talk about spreading, so it started with two people, then it went to 12 people. Then it went to …
<19:43>
I got a report yesterday, it was 851 people. Now they have 5,000 people. So it starts with a little group and then a few weeks later, how long has that, four weeks? 800 and some odd people and they’re sailors, they’re young. There is one death as you know, there’s one death. About 10 people in the hospital right now, but we expect all to get better. But there is one death out of it, but that spread like wildfire, right? Think of that, it was two and 12, we thought it ended at 41. You didn’t think so, I don’t think you thought so.
<20:30>
It was a tough environment.
<20:37>
Well, I don’t know where it came up.
<20:40>
I’d like to refer to these two people because I don’t know where it came up. Everyone kept saying, you said they’ll be five. That was a study that came out. Somebody came out with a study of five million people. Do I think we will? I think we will, but I never said it. We’re testing millions of people. We’re testing more people than any country in the world by far, by double, by much more than double, more than everybody else combined, we’re testing. But somebody started throwing around five million. I didn’t say five million. Somebody said five million. I think it might’ve been the Harvard report. There was a report from Harvard and they said five million. <crosstalk 00:21:18> Well, we will be there, but I didn’t say it. I mean I didn’t say it, but somebody came out with a report saying five million.
<21:25>
It sounds like a lot. Yesterday, I looked at Deborah, I said, what’s with the five million? I think that was from the Harvard report, but we are going to be there at a certain point. We’ll be there. But we’re more advanced than any country in the world on testing. And not only that, the testing is the best at, not only the most, we’ve not only done the most. Even when you look at so many people, they love the Abbott Laboratories test. You might have had it, did you have it today?
<21:52>
He’s okay, he got a test out of this deal.
<21:55>
But everybody comes in, they give them the test, in five minutes they know they’re okay or they’re not okay. So far we haven’t found anyone not okay. But it’s a great test. Nobody even thought of that two months ago or three months ago, that was developed over a very short period of time, brilliantly developed by Abbott. So no, we’ll be at whatever number it is, but we’re so far advanced over … And it’d be really good if the press would give credit for it to the people that have done such a good job.
<22:22>
Because they always say, well, you’re doing millions, but what about five million? I’m saying where did that number … I keep asking where does it come from? I really learned this morning, I think it was probably the Harvard said that’d be nice <crosstalk 00:22:37> And sure it would be nice and would be there, but again, we didn’t say it. Who said it, is a report. We have other reports talking about a much lower number, but we’re doing better than anybody in the world by far. The people that have worked on it have been incredible. And you know John Bell is testament to it, testing is one of the great reasons that you’ve been successful in Louisiana.
<23:20>
Yeah, pretty much.
<26:47>
And you know, interesting about that number is that I remember when we did a million, we said we just did a million, and the media said, “Oh, when are you going to do two million?” I said, “Well, soon, pretty soon.” Then we do two million. And then they said, “When are you going to do five million?”
<27:03>
In other words, it’s sort of a setup because no matter what … And by the way, when we hit five million, when are we going to hit 10 million? It’s a little bit of a trap, it’s called the media trap. It pertains to me. It doesn’t pertain to other people, but it’s what I’ve had to experience for five years.
<27:23>
I don’t know, I heard the five billion is totally unnecessary. Now that doesn’t mean we’re not going to hit it pretty easily. But again, I think it’s a media trap. I think the number, I’ve just … All I know is this, President Moon of South Korea, because we’ve heard a lot of good things about South Korea have good relationship. He called me to congratulate me on the testing. He said, “Your testing is the greatest in the world. How did this happen?” I kept hearing about South Korea, South Korea, and he said, “I want to just tell you that what you’ve done with testing is incredible.” Okay?
<27:57>
So our people should be congratulated. And what they’ll do is no matter what, if we test, as they say, 325 million people, they’re going to say, “When are you going to test them twice?” Okay. So you know, it’s a trap. It’s really a media trap. But that’s okay. Look, we are better than anybody in the world on testing. We have tested more than anybody in the world and we have the best tests in the world. And that’s been all developed over the last couple of months because we started off with nothing. We had nothing, we had absolutely nothing. And that included ventilators. And that included … I always say the cupboards were bare, they were bare in the military and they were bare medically in terms of pandemics or epidemics or whatever you want to call it. So our people have done an incredible job. Yeah.
<28:56>
Say it again?
<29:04>
Well, they’ve been known for years and they play the game and I guess we’ve had people over the years that never really focused on that game, who would think you’d have to play the game. And it’s to a large extent public relations, public relations or whatever. But China’s not to be congratulated for what happened, just so you understand it. They’re not to be congratulated for what took place, and WHO is essentially congratulating them. And when they start doing that, we’ve got problems.
<29:37>
Again, the United States pays almost 500 million and they pay 38 million a year, 500 million versus 38 million a year. So there are lots of different people that we can give this to. We can give this money to lots of different incredible groups, there are a lot of groups out there. Doesn’t have to go to the WHO, we can give it to groups that are very worthy and get much more bang for your buck. But we’re going to make a decision in the not too distant future. If I could, I’d just like to have John Bell finish up by talking about the great success in Louisiana. And you worked with two great senators and they were-
<30:14>
John Bel, and they were really calling me a lot and saying, “We’ve got to take care of Louisiana. So you had a great relationship with them.”
<31:50>
It’s an honor working with you and the people of Louisiana, great people that have really gone through a lot.
<32:00>
I agree. They’re great people.
<33:00>
That’s great. Great job. Would you like to say something doctor?
<33:25>
It’s been great. And all of that is coming. Everything went and now it’s coming. And you’ll be in a position, I think you said 43 that’s a big number. That’s a great number. If you could do that, that’d be a fantastic number. One thing I think I’d like to just finish by saying, so we reached a million cases and that’s a tremendous amount. And the reason is because the testing, because other countries don’t test. So if you don’t test, you’re not going to find cases. The reason we have a million, take a look at number two, number two is a fraction of that because they don’t test, they don’t have the ability to do what we’re doing.
<34:03>
So it’s a number that in one way sounds bad, but in another way is really actually an indication that our testing is so superior. I mean, to think that we have more people, more cases than China. Does anybody really believe that? But the testing is different. And I think also the transparency is much different. Transparency is like from day and night we are totally transparent. Whatever it is, it is. But because of our great testing and because of what we’ve done and the amount we’ve done, we are able to point out far more cases than anybody else has. If other countries did the kind of testing that we had, now we’re a much bigger country than most also in terms of people, but if other countries did this kind of testing, you’d see numbers that would be much different. Okay? Thank you all very much.
