<01:35>
Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate everybody being here. Beautiful day in the rose garden. Tremendous distance between chairs, social distancing. You practice it very well. We appreciate it. That’s great. I want to start today by highlighting several critical developments on both the testing and treatment that will help us win our war against the coronavirus. On Friday, the FDA authorized a new test developed by Abbott Labs that delivers lightening fast results in as little as five minutes, and it’s a whole new ballgame. I want to thank Abbott Labs for the incredible work they’ve done. They’ve been working around the clock. Normally this approval process from the FDA would take 10 months and even longer, but we did it in four weeks. Abbott has stated that they will begin delivering 50,000 tests each day starting this weekend. As you know, even before this development, we’ve been doing more tests than any other country anywhere in the world.
<02:49>
It’s one of the reasons that we have more cases than other countries, because we’ve been testing. It’s also one of the reasons that we’re just about the lowest in terms of mortality rate, because we’ve been doing more testing so we have bigger numbers to look at. I want to also thank General Seminite out of the Army Corps of Engineers and general Paul Acheck who’s here with us, who’s going to say a few words in a little while. What the Army Corps of Engineers did along with FEMA in New York was incredible. They built 2,900 beds worth of hospital, an incredible hospital in the Javits Center, which I know well, and I just want to say that was unreal. They did it in less than four days. People have never seen anything like that, and it’s an incredible, complex, top of the line hospital. They did it so quickly.
<03:48>
Everyone’s trying to figure out how they did it, including me and I was a good builder, but they did it very quickly, Mike. So we’re very, we’re very happy. So I want to thank army Corps of engineers, FEMA, the incredible job they have done now they’re moving to other locations throughout the country where they already have people building hospitals. We’re doing them in Louisiana and New Jersey, many, many other places. But these are incredible men and women and they worked around the clock and the people of New York are very happy. Governor Cuomo expressed his thanks, which we appreciate, but these are … I mean, nobody could have done a job like that. Most people have never seen anything like it. The deployment of rapid testing will vastly accelerate our ability to monitor, track, contained, and ultimately defeat the virus. We will defeat the virus. It will also allow us to test doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers immediately and enable us to act quickly and aggressively to shut down the spread of the virus, so important in critical facilities like hospitals and nursing homes.
<04:58>
We will ensure that we can give cities and states the best information to guide local decision makers in making. I want to point out that the hydroxychloroquine is being administered to 1,100 patients, people in New York along with the Z-Pak, which is azithromycin, and it’s very early yet. It’s only … It started two days ago, but we will see what happens. I want to thank Steven Hahn, who’s a great doctor. Left one of the best jobs in our country running an incredible hospital in Texas, and he’s the head of the FDA and Steven got approval for that so fast. Let’s see how it works. It may, it may not, but we may have some incredible results. We’re going to know soon. So it’s tested … It’s being tested on 1,100 people in New York. The FDA is also allowing the emergency use of a blood-related therapy called convalescent plasma as an experimental treatment for seriously ill patients.
<06:10>
This treatment involves taking blood plasma from patients who have already recovered from the virus, so they’re recovered, they’re strong, something was good in them that worked, and so we take the plasma from those people that have recovered so well, meaning their plasma is rich in antibodies against the virus and transfusing it into sick patients, very, very, very powerfully. So sick patients will be transfused with the blood taken to boost their immune system. We’ll see what happens and we’re having some early results that are good, but we will see, and that’s going, I think, very rapidly. Again, we got approvals in really very quick time. We’re also looking at an approval for the sterilization of masks. I kept saying to myself … I’ve seen some of the masks are very complex. We’re delivering millions by the way, millions, but I kept saying, “Why aren’t they able to use that mask a second, third, fourth time?”
<07:17>
Mike DeWine, the great governor of Ohio called me, they have a company that is in the final process of getting approval for the sterilization of masks and in some cases, depending on the mask, some of these masks are very, very strong, very powerful, very strong material. They’re able to sterilize the mask up to 20 times. So that’s, I guess, like getting 20 masks. And so we worked on that. As soon as I heard from Mike today, I got involved and the FDA is now involved and we’re trying to get a fast approval for the sterilization of masks. That would be a tremendous difference. It would be really helpful. While much of the research has to be done, we have a lot of research left to do obviously, this treatment on plasma has shown promising results in other countries. We’re in communication with other countries, very strong communications and they’re very reliant on us in just about all cases.
<08:19>
We have the greatest people in the world. They’re very, very anxious to find out how we’re doing on our different things, whether it’s a cure or whether it’s really anything having to do with getting people better. We have some interesting things will be announced I think over the next few weeks, but we’ll see what happens. They’re being tested right now. The vaccines are moving along very rapidly. The vaccines are an answer, but I’d like to see if we could do something therapeutically so that we could take care of the people that are already sick, and we’re working on that at a level that people would be amazed. These are incredible people. They don’t stop. This method also has been used for more than a century, and that’s the blood-related therapy. More than a century to fight off infectious diseases. So it’s not unusual.
<09:18>
Our level of complexity has changed, but it’s a concept that’s been used for a long time, including during the Spanish Flu epidemic, and that was really a pandemic of proportions like, frankly, nobody’s seen until what we’re facing now. That was in 1918. You know what the result of that was, probably from 75 to 100 million people were killed and also other viruses like the one in this outbreak. This is a very tough one. This is a tough one because it spread so quickly, like nothing we’ve seen. It spread so easily, so quickly. We’re unleashing every tool in our nation’s vast arsenal, economic, if you look, medical and scientific, military. Homeland Security is a working very, very hard with all of them in order to vanquish the virus. As you know, every level of government, state, local and federal is working nonstop to obtain more personal protective equipment for frontline workers, we’re delivering vast orders of this material. I’m going to ask a couple of the people here to join me that both make it and deliver it.
<10:40>
Joining us today are the leaders of America’s largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment including McKesson, Cardinal health, Henry Schein, Owens and Minor, Medline, FedEx and UPS. We just concluded a very productive meeting about ways to keep our supply chains and delivery systems moving at top speed. And maybe I’d like to just ask for a couple of minutes for Mike Coffman to come up and maybe Ed Pesicka. Mike is with Cardinal and Ed is Owen and Minor, but I and I appreciate it and if anybody else has anything, please come up. But if you could come up Mike for a second and Ed for a second, just you could maybe say what you told me before when we had the meeting. Thank you.
<12:06>
Thank you.
<13:00>
Thank you very much.
<13:03>
And I bring that up because when we discussed back in a room, we were in a conference room. Very nice one, actually. It’s called the cabinet room. That statement was made that they’ve been delivering for years, 10 to 20,000 masks. Okay. It’s a New York hospital. It’s packed all the time. How do you go from 10 to 20 to 300,000? 10 to 20,000 masks, to 300,000. even though this is different, something’s going on. And you ought to look into it as reporters. Where are the masks going? Are they going out the back door? How do you go from 10,000 to 300,000? And we have that in a lot of different places. So somebody should probably look into that, because I just don’t see from a practical standpoint how that’s possible to go from that to that. And we have that happening in numerous places. Not to that extent. That was the highest number I’ve heard. That’s the highest number you’ve seen, I would imagine. Right? But this man makes them and delivers them to a lot of hospitals.
<14:11>
He knows the system better than anybody. And I think you were more surprised than I was when you saw that number. So thank you very much. I hope I didn’t get any of your clients in trouble, but it could be that they are in trouble. So they have to look at that in New York. FEMA is working with these companies to launch Project Airbridge to expedite the movement of critical supplies from other countries to the United States. The first flight arrived at JFK Airport, New York this morning, filled with 80 tons of personal protective equipment including 130,000 N95 respirators. Those are the ones that we were talking about before. 1.8 million face masks and gowns, 10.3 million gloves and many other things, millions and millions of different items. FEMA has scheduled 19 additional flights and is adding more daily. We hope to have about 50 flights. We’re going to have, I think including the one that came in today, we’re up at 51 flights with these massive planes from the different companies that was so nice to be here today. Would you like to say something on behalf? Please come up. Thank you.
<16:02>
Thank you very much. Great job you’re doing.
<16:04>
Please. Thank you very much.
<17:16>
Thank you very much. Great job.
<17:54>
Thank you.
<17:55>
Fantastic job. Anybody else if you want? Yes please. You did such a great job. <inaudible 00:00:18:04>.
<18:47>
Thank you. So thank you all very much and for the great job you’re doing. It’s really incredible, frankly. Many of the States are stocked up. Some of them don’t admit it, but we have sent just so much, so many things to them and including ventilators. There’s a question as to hoarding of ventilators. Some hospitals and independent hospitals and some hospital chains as we call them, they are holding ventilators. They don’t want to let them up. We need them for certain areas where there’s big problems. We can’t hold them if they think there might be a problem weeks down the road. So we’ve delivered a lot in this group has been really fantastic. We want to thank you, and UPS and FedEx in particular. You’ve gone absolutely out of your way. So we appreciate everything you’ve done and delivered. The federal government continues to mobilize every resource to make sure our frontline doctors and nurses have the equipment needed to save American lives.
<19:51>
Yesterday I visited naval station Norfolk as the USNS comfort departed for New York three weeks ahead of schedule, fully loaded with 12 operating rooms, 1,000 hospital beds and hundreds of the best doctors, nurses, and medical professionals anywhere in the United States Navy, anywhere, frankly, in the United States. It was an incredible thing to see. Mostly you saw that on television as it was leaving. It left literally three weeks early. It was under a maintenance and they got the maintenance done very quickly. They worked around the clock as many of the people have and it was a great site. Additionally, two of the country’s largest health insurers, Humana and Cigna are announcing that they will waive copays, which is a big deal for anybody that understands insurance. They don’t waive copays too easily, but we’ve asked them to do it and they’ve done it. Coinsurance and deductibles for the coronavirus treatments to help ease the financial burden on American families during this pandemic, so they’re waiving copays, coinsurance, and deductibles.
<20:59>
Nobody’s … I don’t think anyone’s heard of that one. Have you heard of that one before? I haven’t heard. I want to thank them. Great companies. Today I spoke with Wolfgang Puck. Wolfgang Puck is a great restaurateur as you know, as is John George and Thomas Keller and Daniel Ballou and other leaders in the restaurant business, which has been probably one of the hardest hit industries. I have directed my staff to use any and all authority available to give restaurants, bars, clubs, incentives to stay open. You’re going to lose all these restaurants and they’re not going to make it back and they have to get going. So what I’m doing is I’m going to tell Secretary Mnuchen and also our great secretary of labor, who you know very well, to immediately start looking into the restoring of the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations that set the restaurant business back a lot when it was done originally, and then done not so long ago.
<22:05>
We’re going to go to deductibility so that companies can send people to restaurants. I think it’ll have a tremendous impact and maybe keep them open. And I mean, don’t forget, some are closing right now, despite the fact that they could be open in the not too distant future and we expect that, but there are some that aren’t going to be able to get open, and we want to make sure they do. So we’re going to look at the restoration, restoring the deductibility of meals and entertainment costs for corporations so the corporations can send people to restaurants and take a deduction on it like they did in the old days. That was when restaurants were doing really well. The financial relief bill I signed on Friday provided historical relief for American workers and small businesses and includes $350 billion in job restoration and retention. So if you look at job retention loans for small businesses, that’s a big deal, with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying the work.
<23:03>
– With loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying their workers, so it’s $350 billion job retention loans for small businesses with loan forgiveness available for businesses that continue paying workers. I mean, how about that? $300 billion in direct cash payments are being sent to every American citizen earning less than $99,000 per year, $3400 for the typical family of four, so they’ll be getting a check for $3400 for the typical family of four. Approximately $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits. Under this plan, the average worker who has lost his or her job will receive 100% of their salary for up to four full months. The bill provides for these unemployment checks to be delivered through the existing state unemployment systems. Not us, state.
<23:54>
I was opposed to this method because many of the states have very antiquated computer systems that are 45 years old, and they’re not prepared to handle this kind of distribution, this kind of money coming in so quickly. They’re not set up for that, and I didn’t want to do it, but our opponents wanted it, so we did it, and if they don’t get their money fast, I’m going to ask that we convene the federal government, that we come back to Congress and we’ll do something where we take care of it, because we can take care of it very easily and quickly, and I said that, but a lot of these systems are so old and so antiquated at the state level that they’re going, they have the money, they’re going to get the money very quickly, but they’re not going to be able to distribute it, so remember what I said, and we will, if we have to, call Congress back or find some other way of delivery of the money.
<24:48>
Throughout this great national struggle the American people have embodied the unrivaled patriotism and willpower that has led America to conquer every challenge, every single one, in our nation’s history. More than 90% of Americans say they are staying home as much as possible, putting their lives, their careers, their educations, and their dreams on hold out of devotion to their fellow citizens, and to their country. Social distancing, that’s the way you win. These shared sacrifices are pulling our nation together like never before. Family bonds are strengthening, neighbors are looking after neighbors, it’s incredible. I’m seeing, you’re seeing, everybody’s seeing what’s happening. Communities are rallying for the cause, and old divisions are fading away. The Americans of every background are uniting to help our nation in this hour of need.
<25:44>
It’s up to 151 countries, so when we say our nation, our nation and the world, when you think. Think of it, 151 countries. Somebody said to me today that wasn’t in this particular world, they didn’t know that we had that many countries. 151 countries, that’s something. Some are struggling at a level that nobody would have believed possible. If you look at Italy, if you look at, France is having big problems, Spain is having incredible problems. Something we did very well is, when we stopped the inflow from China at a very early level, that was a good thing to do. Great thing to do. We would have thousands and thousands of more deaths, and we also stopped the inflow from Europe at a very early level, but those things were very important, especially the initial one, because we had never done anything like it, where we closed our borders to a country like that.
<26:43>
The modeling put together by Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci and our other top healthcare exp-, I mean, we have, and these people are amazing, the healthcare experts who, in this country, are the best in the world, they demonstrate that the mitigation measures we are putting in place may significantly reduce the number of new infections and ultimately the number of fatalities. I want the American people to know that your selfless, inspiring, and valiant efforts are saving countless lives. You’re making the difference. The modeling estimates that the peak in death rate is likely to hit in two weeks, so I’ll say it again: the peak, the highest point of death rates, remember this, is likely to hit in two weeks. Nothing would be worse than declaring victory before the victory is won. That would be the greatest loss of all. Therefore, the next two weeks, and during this period it’s very important that everyone strongly follow the guidelines, have to follow the guidelines that our great vice president holds up a lot. He’s holding that up a lot. He believes in it so strongly.
<28:06>
The better you do, the faster this whole nightmare will end. Therefore, we will be extending our guidelines to April 30th to slow the spread. On Tuesday, we will be finalizing these plans and providing a summary of our findings, supporting data, and strategy to the American people. So we’ll be having lots of meetings in between, but we’ll be having a very important statement made on Tuesday, probably Tuesday evening, on all of the findings, all of the data, and the reasons we’re doing things the way we’re doing them. We can expect that, by June 1st, we will be well on our way to recovery. We think by June 1st, a lot of great things will be happening.
<29:02>
I want every citizen in our country to take heart and confidence in the fact that we have the best medical minds in the world tackling this disease. We have the best science, the best researchers, and the best talent anywhere working night and day to protect your family and loved ones and to overcome this pandemic. With the grace of God, we are rising to the occasion. We are proving that no darkness can overshadow the eternal light of American courage. We will win, and when we do, we will rebound with astonishing force and speed. We will be stronger than ever, and we will have learned so much, where something like this can never hurt us to the extent it has, and the world, again.
<29:50>
In our present crisis, the strength of our people is our single most important asset, and together we will defeat this invisible curse, this invisible enemy, and rise to incredible new heights. So I just want to thank you all for being here, and we’ll take some questions if you’d like, yeah. Please. Kelly.
<30:36>
No, I want the people in New York to check Governor Cuomo, Mayor de Blasio, that when a hospital that’s getting 10,000 masks goes to 300,000 masks during the same period, and that’s a rapid period, I would like them to check that, because I hear stories like that all the time. We’re delivering millions and millions of different products, and all we do is hear, “Can you get some more?” But when you hear that, and I heard that from one of the great companies of the world, that doing this, it’s a client, and they’re going from, you heard it, 10,000, 20,000 tops, to 300,000, and that’s a hospital that’s always full, so I think people should check that, because there’s something going on. I don’t think it’s hoarding, I think it’s maybe worse than hoarding. But check it out.
<31:28>
I don’t know. I don’t know. I think that’s for other people to figure out, but you don’t go from numbers like that. Now, other equipment likewise, because we’re delivering a lot of ventilators, and we’re building, by the way, we’re building and buying. We have a lot of ventilators that we’re going to be sending out very soon. We also have, right now, in the stockpile, almost 10,000 ventilators that we have to hold in case of emergency. We don’t want them going out and then Louisiana has a tremendous problem, which we now know they do. All of a sudden it came, very quickly. Louisiana was doing so fantastically well, then all of a sudden there was a big rash of cases, so we have to be prepared to move the ventilators. They’re very important pieces of equipment. They’re very expensive, and they’re very complex. It’s like building a car. These are expensive, complicated, very complicated pieces of equipment.
<32:23>
So we now have 10,000, and we inherited a system which was broken, just like, I’ll never forget the day when a general came and said, “Sir,” my first week in office, “We have no ammunition.” That was in the military. We’ve now rebuilt our military, stronger than it’s ever been, and we have so much ammunition. You wouldn’t believe it how much ammunition we have, but same thing here. We had a stockpile that was deficient. We had testing that was no good. We had a testing situation that just wasn’t right. It was okay for very small cases, but it was obsolete and it was broken and it was only good for a very small situation, but what I’d like to do is I’d like to ask Dr. Fauci to come forward and discuss the number, because I think the number is going to be a very different number than the numbers that you talked about. Please, Doctor. You might talk about that.
<34:39>
Deborah, please. Would you, can you explain the 2.2 million if we did nothing, because a lot of people would like to know that.
<37:33>
I just want to reiterate, because a lot of people have been asking, well, what would have happened if we did nothing? Did nothing, we just rode it out, and I’ve been asking that question to Tony and Deborah, and they’ve been talking to me about it for a long time, other people have been asking that question, and I think we got our most accurate study today, or certainly most comprehensive. Think of the number, potentially, 2.2 million people if we did nothing. If we didn’t do the distancing, if we didn’t do all of the things that we’re doing. When you hear those numbers, you start to realize that, with the kind of work we went through last week, with the $2.2 trillion, it no longer sounds like a lot, right?
<38:19>
You’re talking about, when I heard the number today, first time I’ve heard that number, because I’ve been asking the same question that some people have been asking, I felt even better about what we did last week with the $2.2 trillion, because you’re talking about a potential of up to 2.2 million, and some people said it could even be higher than that. So you’re talking about 2.2 million deaths. 2.2 million people from this. If we can hold that down as we’re saying, to 100,000, it’s a horrible number. Maybe even less, but to 100,000, so we have between 100 and 200,000, we altogether have done a very good job. 2.2, up to 2.2 million deaths and maybe even beyond that? I’m feeling very good about what we did last week.
<39:12>
Yes, please. Go ahead, please.
<39:22>
No.
<39:24>
It was just an aspiration. We actually will be hitting, potentially, this was with our meeting before, on Easter, that could be a peak. That could be a peak period. That could be the peak, sadly to say, that could be the peak number of deaths before it starts coming down. No, that was aspirational. We had an aspiration of Easter, but when you hear these kind of numbers and you hear the potential travesty, we don’t want to do anything where, you know, we don’t want to have it spike up. We don’t want to do it soon and then all of a sudden you go down, you’re coming down, and then you start going up again, because we discussed that could happen, and we don’t want that to happen. We’ve gone through too much.
<40:09>
That was an aspirational number. I didn’t say “Easter.” I said, “It would be a great thing if we could do it by Easter,” and we know much more now than we knew two, three weeks ago. Easter should be the peak number and it should start coming down and hopefully very substantially from that point.
<40:25>
Okay, thank you.
<40:25>
Please. OAN.
<40:46>
Well, I don’t know. I know that, boy, that’s a nice question. Thank you very much. Yeah, I don’t want high approval ratings for this. I wish we could have our old life back. We had the greatest economy that we’ve ever had, and we didn’t have death. We didn’t have this. We didn’t have this horrible scourge, this plague, call it whatever you want. The virus. We’re working very hard, that’s all I know. I see things, I see numbers. They don’t matter to me. What matters to me is that we have a victory over this thing as soon as possible. When you hear that 2.2 million people could have died if we didn’t go through all of this, and now the number will be a much lower number, hopefully it’s going to be the numbers that we’re talking about, so I appreciate it very much, but what I want is I want our life back again. I want our country back. I want the world back. I want the world to get rid of this. Again, 151 countries. And we’re going to do it. We’re going to have a great victory. We’re going to have a great victory.
<41:52>
Go ahead, please.
<42:03>
Well, that’s what they said. I told you what they’re going to take, copays in particular, that’s a big deal. Insurance companies don’t do that, and I appreciate it. Humana and Cigna, they should be getting a lot of credit for that.
<42:17>
I don’t know. Those two are getting a lot of credit right now for it, and they should, because it’s something that, it’s a lot of money they’re waiving. We thank them. Will there be other companies? I wouldn’t be surprised.
<42:30>
This great spirit, I’ll tell you what. Yeah, I’d love to have them do it. Let them waive those copays. There’s a great spirit in this country right now. I know insurance companies better than anybody. They just don’t do that. But now there’s a spirit like I have not seen. I have never seen anything like it. Even the media is much more fair. I wouldn’t say all of it, but that’s okay. They should be fair, because they should want this to end. This is about death. So I wan to thank Cigna and Humana. Thank you.
<43:05>
They haven’t asked for reimbursement, so I assume they’re not. They said they’re going to waive them. Waiving them doesn’t mean we’re going to waive them and get reimbursed, no.
<43:28>
Well, they’re going to be getting the money. I will tell you, I think landlords are going to take it easy. We may put out a statement on that. I think a lot of people that are owed money is going to take it easy. They don’t sort of have a choice, but a lot of concessions are made, just like the insurance companies. A lot of concessions are being made that wouldn’t have even been thought of three weeks ago, not even thought of. So a lot of really positive things are happening. Please, behind you.
<44:02>
I didn’t do that at all. Read the statement. Read the statement. Read what I said. I said, “We’re going to look into possibly quarantine.” I didn’t say, “We’re going to quarantine.” I looked at it as a possibility, because a lot of our professionals suggested quarantine. I said, “We’re going to look at it.” We then looked at it, you see? Who are you with? Bloomberg, right? I can’t imagine that. Let me just tell you, I didn’t threaten it. I don’t go around threatening. What happened is people, professionals, very good professionals, love the idea of doing that, because that’s sort of the ultimate in distancing. You can’t do, they didn’t want New Yorkers, where they’re having a problem, necessarily going down to Florida, where they have less of a problem, so the concept of quarantine was thrown out to me, really would love to do it. They would love to do it, and I thought it was too much to do, because the people are doing a great job with it. Also, it’s very hard to enforce. Okay, please.
<45:06>
No, I think we made people aware to stay in your houses and do good. Now we did an advisory. It’s a strong advisory. The governors are running the advisory, the three governors. New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and I think we did a great thing. All I did yesterday, as you know, you can see it, you can read it, you can read and you can see very simply that I said that we are looking into it, and then, before the end of the evening, substantially, we decided to go with the advisory, which, frankly, I liked better from the beginning. Go ahead.
<45:46>
I didn’t say that.
<45:50>
Why don’t you people act, let me ask you-
<45:53>
Why don’t you act in a little more positive? It’s always trying to get you-
<45:58>
Get you, get you, and you know what? That’s why nobody trusts the media anymore.
<46:03>
That’s why people…
<46:03>
Excuse me, you didn’t hear me, that’s why you used to work for The Times and now you work for somebody else. Look, let me tell you something, be nice. Don’t be-
<46:11>
… don’t be threatening, be nice. Go ahead.
<46:18>
It’s not going to impact.
<46:20>
We’re producing tremendous numbers of ventilators, we’re doing a great job on it, Mike Pence, our vice president, just headed up the task force, which has been incredible the job they’ve done, we have everybody in the White House working on it, everybody in the country is working on this in one way or the other, the fact is we’ve done a great job of delivering.
<46:39>
You’ve seen the biggest people in the business. I mean, there’s nobody even close to this group of people, we had a meeting at three o’clock, it lasted for a long time, it was a great meeting with the generals, and with everybody else, and they have done a fantastic job.
<46:53>
I’m just saying this, if they’re holding … Let me give you one example, we sent thousands of generators to New York, they were put into a warehouse, a New York warehouse, that happened to be located, interestingly, in Edison, New Jersey, they were given to New York, and we then went to other places also giving thousands of ventilators.
<47:14>
The people in New York never distributed the generators. We said, “Why didn’t you distribute them?” Now, you have to understand, they have New York people working in those warehouses, they knew they had them, so we said, “Why didn’t you distribute them?” I hope they’ve distributed them now, but maybe they didn’t need them so badly, but just so you know, we’re all, you, me, everybody, we’re all on the same team.
<47:36>
When journalists get up, and you’re a journalist, a fine journalist, when journalists get up-
<47:41>
… and ask questions that are so threatening, we’re all on the same team.
<47:47>
Take a look at my interview, what I want to do is if there is something wrong, we have to get to the bottom of it. When I hear facemasks go from 10,000 to 300,000 and they constantly need more, and the biggest man in the business is shocked, he knows all about the virus by the way, he’s not surprised by that, he knows all about it, he shouldn’t be surprised, he should say, “Well, they’re standard because this is really a very tough disease. This is really a very tough virus to handle.” Okay, please go ahead-
<48:19>
Go ahead. That’s enough, thank you very much.
<48:21>
Please, please, that’s enough.
<48:24>
That’s enough.
<48:25>
That’s enough. That’s not fair to your other reporters. It’s not fair, you had a long time, a long question. If we have time I’ll get back to you for your second question, is that okay? All right, thank you. I appreciate it.
<48:42>
Well, we don’t know that, but we think the peak will hit.
<48:45>
Right.
<48:45>
That is our two-
<48:47>
… doctors here.
<48:55>
Well I can, I think I’ll ask doctor and doctor, maybe you could both come up and give your opinion on that, because that’s really …
<49:03>
Okay, please.
<53:21>
Just to finish what …
<53:23>
So what both were saying, and what Dr. Fauci just brought up, we don’t want to do well and then end a little bit early and have it start going up again, because that would be a disaster. Go ahead, please.
<53:41>
Yes.
<53:43>
Yes.
<53:52>
Yes, we are. In fact, I met last night with our people, we’re sending them a lot of different things that we’re not needing because we’re obviously in need of a lot also, and we’re also helping them monetarily.
<54:07>
We are helping Italy a lot, we’re working very closely with Italy, and we’re working closely with Spain too, which is really hit hard, and we’re working with everybody. I spoke with Angela Merkel the other day, Germany’s hit hard, their mortality rate is different I think because they do more testing, but their mortality rate is much different.
<54:24>
Italy’s mortality rate is very high, so is Spain, but we’re working very closely with them, yes. We had a big meeting on it last night. Admiral Giroir, would you please come up and just talk a little bit about the tremendous success that’s been made on testing from where we started? Thank you.
<57:57>
Thank you Giroir. Thank you Admiral very much, yeah please, go ahead.
<58:25>
Well, I don’t have to tell you because those companies have come into line, they’re doing a great job, they’re working very hard 24 hours round the clock, so I don’t want to give their names now because they’ve been great, they’ve come into line. And by the way, General Motors is doing a fantastic job, I don’t think we have to worry about General Motors now, they’ve really, done their job.
<58:44>
And what the Admiral said also, I think we can add this Admiral, the reason we show more cases than anybody else in the world is we’re doing more testing than anybody else in the world, so we have more cases because we’re doing far more testing than anybody in the world. And remember, we started with a system that was broken, for many years it was broken, and I’m not blaming the last administration, I’m saying other administrations, and our pipeline had very little in it, just like we had no ammunition, we had very little medical, we had very little in our pipeline.
<59:14>
Now we have ammunition more than hopefully we’ll ever need, and we also have a pipeline that’s packed, and now we have those 10,000 ventilators that we can use because you need some quickly, I mean this goes quickly from place to place. I’d love to give them all out right now, but we need them quickly. I don’t want to give them out and then we have to take them back and move them someplace else. So we’re very much prepared. Please.
<59:56>
Well, I think you’re going to find that almost all states … Look, I was on the call yesterday with the governors, and they were happy with the job we’re doing, and I’ll tell you what, if you had a different administration, they would not have been happy. These are people that speak their mind, they were happy.
<01:00:11>
It was falsely reported by a couple of people that, “Oh gee, they weren’t.” They were happy, they were thrilled. Florida has been taken care of, and Michigan has been taken care of, very important state. To me it’s very important because I’m so proud of what we’ve done bringing car companies back into Michigan, and we’re now dealing with the governor, and I think, Mike, I can say that a lot of good things are happening in Michigan, Massachusetts, we’re dealing with the governor very strongly, and we’re trying to get things to Massachusetts as rapidly as possible.
<01:00:45>
Well, Florida, look, they’re very aggressive in trying to get things, and they’re doing a very good job, but I think I can say all of the governors are very committed, we’re very committed, we’re working together, and we’re getting things out at a level that nobody’s ever seen before. You can speak to FedEx, you can speak to UPS, you can speak, they’ve never done anything like this, what they’re doing right now, and nobody in the world has been able to match what these great companies have been able to do. If we left that to government it would have been a tough thing. We have mobilized private enterprise, we have mobilized the greatest companies in the world, and what’s happening is incredible.
<01:01:23>
And that includes Abbott, where Abbott comes out and all of a sudden out of nowhere comes up with this incredible test that simplifies everything, it makes it so easy. So I think you’re going to find most states are very happy. I’m dealing with the governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, he’s a Democrat, if that’s what you’re getting at, but I’m dealing with him very successfully, I think he’s very happy. I think he’s actually amazed at what he’s been able to get.
<01:01:45>
In fact, we were even forward-thinking, I suggested we send additional ventilators and other things, we’re building a hospital in Louisiana, very importantly, we’re building hospitals in New Jersey, Governor Murphy of New Jersey is a terrific guy, and frankly he’s got a pretty hotspot right there, right next to New York, and we’re doing hospitals, we’re doing ventilators, we’re getting a lot to Governor Murphy, that’s New Jersey.
<01:02:12>
Last night I spoke-
<01:02:15>
… to the governor of Connecticut, we had a great talk with him, we are really doing the job.
<01:02:20>
Look, Gavin Newsom, the governor of California, he’s been terrific. We send them a boat way ahead of schedule, the ship way ahead of schedule, hospital ship, The Mercy, with 1,000 beds, operating rooms, and it’s been in LA for three days already.
<01:02:36>
So, I think they’re really happy, and when you think about it, in New York we built 2,900 hospital rooms, beds, nobody’s ever seen it before. The governor has never seen anything like that before, this was done by federal government, not by state government, this was done by the federal government, they’re opening it tomorrow.
<01:02:57>
I wanted to be there so badly, but Secret Service and all of the people involved won’t let me, they won’t let me. I would love to be there, but they won’t let me for obvious reasons, but I would’ve loved to have been at the opening tomorrow of the hospital in New York at Javits Center.
<01:03:13>
But we’re very proud of the job we’ve done, we’ve mobilized, and getting better and better every day, and the taskforce headed by your vice president, the job they’ve done, and they don’t even sleep. Okay, any other questions?
<01:03:39>
Yeah.
<01:03:42>
Sure.
<01:03:53>
Yeah. We’re ranking counties, and we’re ranking states, and a lot of people put out false information because they don’t know what they’re talking about, and we took over a dead barren system, we took over a system that was obsolete, it was good for a tiny little sample of people, and even that didn’t work, because when CDC first looked at their test, the biggest problem they had is the test didn’t work.
<01:04:16>
That wasn’t from us, that’s been there a long time. Now we have the best tests in the world, and nobody has, now they’re all calling, “Can we get the quick test?” We call it the quick test, where, by the way, probably more accurate and it takes a few minutes. I mean, it’s pretty amazing what we’ve done. Now, we’re getting along great with the governors, yeah go ahead, please. No, go ahead please.
<01:04:40>
Yeah, thank you.
<01:04:57>
Well, we hope not, but we think it’s going to … we have aspirational thoughts, we would have loved to have been a little bit sooner, but we have to do it right.
<01:05:08>
We could have done it, we could have done it on Easter, but there was a good chance that if it’s coming down, or if it’s still going up, maybe it’s going to be coming down by then, but we just felt it was too soon.
<01:05:19>
We can’t take a chance. Again, because of what we’ve done, and because of the fact that we’ve stopped the flow from China so early, because the question is, from a lot of my friends, “Why don’t we just wing it? Why didn’t we just wing it?” And I kept asking, and we did models now, finally we got these models in, and you hear about the 2.2 million people would have died.
<01:05:40>
I don’t mean we would have had 2.2 million cases, these are 2.2 million people would have died, 2.2 million people. Look, we’re going to have a meeting, or speech, or press conference, or something on Tuesday, I thought what I’d do, I was going to announce the end of April on Tuesday, but I said let’s do it now, because somewhere along the line it’s going to leak, we might as well just do it now and get rid of all the leaks, this way it didn’t, nice and clean.
<01:06:06>
But we have to really do a great job for another couple of weeks, and I think we’re going to be in great shape, and we’re going to be in a position, even with what we’re trying to do with restaurants, with deductability, we have to get these restaurants back in, we have to get our businesses open, we have to get the planes flying, we have to get everything going, we have to get even the cruise ships, I mean we have to get those cruise ships moving along.
<01:06:29>
We had the greatest economy in the history of the world three weeks ago, and now we’ve said, “Please don’t work anymore.” We’re actually paying people not to work. Nobody’s ever heard that, that’s not for us. People want to work, but at the same time, and I’m so glad that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx gave us a number, and the number on the outside, and maybe it’s not even on the outside, we don’t know, is 2.2 million people would have died if we didn’t do what we’re doing.
<01:07:01>
And now we’re looking at numbers that are going to be much, much, much lower than that, and it makes everything we’re doing feel much better to me. Please, go ahead.
<01:07:15>
That would be fine, finish it. Go ahead.
<01:07:18>
I was going to call on you next, you know that.
<01:07:43>
Well, I could ask Dr. Fauci to come up, but it’s common sense. You’re going to have massive depression, meaning mental depression, you’re going to have depression in the economy also, but you’re going to have mental depression for people, you’re going to have large numbers of suicides, take a look at what happens in a really horrible recession or worse, so you’re going to have tremendous suicides, but you know what you’re going to have more than anything else? Drug addiction.
<01:08:08>
You will see drugs being used like nobody’s ever used them before, and people are going to be dying all over the place from drug addiction, because you would have people that had a wonderful job at a restaurant, or even owned a restaurant, I spoke to great people today that have done a great job, and one day they’re at the top of their business, they’re celebrity chefs, they’ve got the most successful restaurants, and in one day they have nothing, they’ve gotten wiped out, one day, from our enemy, this invisible, horrible scourge.
<01:08:38>
So, when you ask me that, it’s so easy to figure that, I mean, massive drug use, massive depression, mental depression, massive numbers of suicide, anxiety causes disease, they say, a lot of people … you’re going to have tremendous, and hopefully we’re not going to have that, because hopefully, by what we’re doing, we get the best of both worlds. We don’t have to …
