<03:26>
Thank you very much. Later this evening, we expect the house to pass Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. I’m grateful that Congress is answering my call to deliver these additional $320 billion in relief for the American worker and for small businesses. At a time when many Americans are enduring significant economic challenges, this bill will help small businesses to keep millions of workers on the payroll. You see, states are starting to open up now and it’s very exciting to see. I think, it’s very awe inspiring. We’re coming out of it and we’re coming out of it well, and we’re… Really, I’m very happy the governors have been… The governors really have been doing a really good job working with us and it’s really pretty impressive to see. I’ve spoken to numerous leaders of countries over the last 48 hours, and they are saying, we’re leading the way. We’re really leading the way in so many different ways.
<04:32>
I’m also very pleased at Harvard as you know. As Harvard and Stanford and Princeton and numerous other universities and college as also large businesses, have sent funds back to us. And in some cases, I stopped funds that I looked at. And we are pleased to report that the funds have either not gone out or it’s about $350 million, and they’ve either not gone out or we’ve renegotiated it and they’re not getting them. So, it’s a couple of cases, they’re sending them back and sending them back immediately. So, I think it was very nice. I want to thank Harvard in particular, they acted very quickly and decisively. And they agreed when they heard the facts that they should not be getting it. So, we appreciate it very much from Harvard, Princeton, Stanford and other institutions. The bill also includes, $30 billion to support small lending institutions, serving distress communities, helping countless African Americans and Hispanic Americans, small businesses.
<05:37>
As we continue our battle against the virus, the data and facts on the ground suggests that we’re making great progress. In 23 states, new cases have declined in the peak week. 40% of American counties have also seen a rapid decline in new cases. 46 states reported drop in patients showing coronavirus like symptoms. That’s a big number. To keep America gaining momentum, every citizen needs to maintain the vigilance and we all understand that very well. We’ve gone over it many times. This includes, practicing good hygiene, maintaining social distance and the voluntary use of face covering. Safe and phased reopening of our economy, it’s very exciting, but does not mean that we are letting down our guard at all in any way. On the contrary, continued diligence is an essential part of our strategy, to get our country back to work, to take our country back. We’re winning this, and we’re going to win it. And we’re going to keep watching, and we’re going to watch very closely for the invisible enemy.
<06:44>
With each passing day, we’re learning more and more about this enemy. The scientists at DHS, have released a report offering a number of insights about how the virus reacts to different temperatures, climates and surfaces. The findings confirmed that the virus survives better in colder and drier environments and does less well in warmer and more humid environments. I have to say that very excitingly, we’re going to have somebody up… Bill, will be up in just a little while, that was a great report you gave. And he’s going to be talking about how the virus reacts in sunlight. And when you hear the numbers, you won’t even believe them. US trials of the COVID-19 have been going on and have been approved in the United States, Germany, UK and China, that’s big news. And we’re… A lot of trials are going on, and we have a lot of great, brilliant minds working on this both from the standpoint of a vaccine and therapeutics.
<07:47>
We must be careful in all conditions, but we will get this done. We’re very close to a vaccine. Unfortunately, we’re not very close to testing because when the testing starts, it takes a period of time, but we’ll get it done. And I want to thank the head of DHS Science and Technology, Bill Bryan, for what he’s going to be doing and what he’s going to be saying and the report that he’s about to give. I think it’s going to be a something that nobody has ever heard, it would be brand new information and very important information. My administration continues to leverage the Defense Production Act to dramatically increase the manufacturing delivery of critical medical supplies. We finalize three contracts to produce 39 million more N95 masks in 90 days. And as you know, we’re also using a sterilization process, some great equipment that will sterilize the masks up to 20 times per mask.
<08:46>
So that’s like ordering 20 times more masks, and it’s working very well. We just want the hospitals and the institutions where it is, to use. A lot of people don’t use it. They’re so used to getting a new mask, they don’t want to use it, they want to go and immediately get a new one. We’re asking them to use the sterilization process. Every bit is good. Up to 20 times, think of that. In addition to ramping up our domestic assembly lines, we also have airlifted nearly 750 million pieces of personal protective equipment into the United States through our Project Airbridge, which has been an incredible thing to watch. It’s really a military operation. The vice president is now providing each governor with an exhaustive count by county breakdown of the privately distributed personal protection, and this is equipment and things that are incredible. It’s personal protective equipment.
<09:44>
It’s incredible and it’s all brand new and at the highest level, we’re getting only the highest level. And also, we’re looking at essential gear within their states, and it’s being delivered to different states quickly and as we speak. This way, the governors should know exactly what’s being delivered through our private sector supply chain within their states as well as through the Project Airbridge. We’re trying to get it immediately from the plane to the state. Where we can’t do that, we bring it into our facilities and get it to the governors. And we’re getting them fast and we’re notifying them very strongly, so they know it’s there. Governors can use this information to quickly ensure that they get materials where and when they are needed. Today, I also want to extend my special thanks to our nation’s incredible County Emergency Management teams, who have been working relentlessly for weeks around the clock, end on end to serve their communities, help distribute critical supplies and save countless American lives. We salute these heroic officials on the front lines.
<10:49>
As we continue to develop potential therapies, the FDA has recently begun a national effort to expand access to convalescent plasma donated from the blood of those who have recovered from the virus. The blood of these donors contains antibodies that can potentially reduce the severity of the illness in those who are sick. And frankly, those that are very sick. Nearly 3000 patients are now enrolled in the expanded access program receiving transfusions nationwide, and I want to thank all of the people that recovered for what they’ve done. As I said yesterday, they raise their hand when they barely can walk, and they’re saying, “I want to donate blood, I want to donate whatever it is that you want, because we want to help people.” It’s really quite incredible. Convalescent plasma will also be used to manufacture a concentrated antibody treatment that does not have to be matched with a particular blood type.
<11:48>
This concentrated antibody treatment could be used as a preventative measure to keep healthcare workers and other high risk populations from contracting the virus in the first place. Very big deal. Clinical trials of these products are slated to begin within weeks and we can maybe have a fairly quick solution. I urge Americans to get in there and keep doing what you’re doing. Because again, we want those people recovering or recovered from coronavirus, to contact their local blood and plasma donation center to learn how they can help, and they’ve been so great and I just appreciate it. My administration has also partnered with the leading… And we have really been establishing some great partnerships with leading technology companies and scientific journals, to create a database of 52,000 scholarly articles on the virus that can be analyzed by artificial intelligence. Top AI experts are now using this wealth of data to gain insights into potential therapies, and we’re collaborating with tech firms, universities and our national labs, to harness American supercomputers in the search for treatments and vaccines.
<12:59>
That search is going on and it’s being… I think you’ll see in the future, you’ll see it’s very successful. Ultimately, it’ll be a tremendous success. Great progress is being made at a rapid pace, a pace like no other. We have every hope that with the full might and resources of American science and technology and with the courage and devotion of the American people who have been so incredible, we will end this plague and together we will restore the full measure of American strength and power and prosperity. Our country is going to do fantastically well. You see what’s going on. There is a pent-up demand in our country to get it back right where it was and maybe even better. And that’s what’s going to happen. So with that, I’d like to ask Mike Pence to come up. Vice president, say a few words. Please, Mike.
<29:46>
A question that probably some of you are thinking of if you’re totally into that world, which I find to be very interesting. So, supposedly we hit the body with a tremendous, whether it’s ultraviolet or just very powerful light, and I think you said that hasn’t been checked, but you’re going to test it. And then I said supposing you brought the light inside the body, which you can do either through the skin or in some other way. And I think you said you’re going to test that too. Sounds interesting, right? And then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in one minute. And is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or almost a cleaning because you see it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs, so it’d be interesting to check that so that you’re going to have to use medical doctors with, but it sounds interesting to me. So, we’ll see, but the whole concept of the light, the way it kills it in one minute. That’s pretty powerful. Steve, please.
<30:57>
Well, we may and we may go beyond that. We’re going to have to see where it is and I think people are going to know. You’re going to know, I’m going to know. I think people are going to know just out of common sense, at some point we won’t have to do that, but until we feel it’s safe, we’re going to be extending.
<31:24>
Yeah. It means we’re going to watch those cases very carefully. I think we’ve all gotten very good at it. We’ve gotten good at tracing. We see where the cases are, where they’re going, and we’re going to be watching it and it’s called containment. At a certain point, we’re going to be able to contain, and when you see this, a lot of people have been talking about summer. Maybe this is one of the reasons. I once mentioned that maybe it does go away with heat and light and people didn’t like that statement very much. The fake news didn’t like it at all and I just threw it out as a suggestion, but it seems like that’s the case because when it’s on a surface that would last for a long time, when that surface is outside, it goes away very quickly. It dies very quickly with the sun. Yeah, go ahead.
<32:16>
Yeah, we’ll look into it and I have been looking into it. I’ve been talking to a lot of the different senators, but I don’t want to talk about it now. That was a very interesting presentation. Go ahead, Jim.
<32:29>
I just told you I’m not talking about it and we’ll talk about it later.
<32:32>
I’d like to talk about something that right now is of more interest…
<32:37>
Yeah, sure.
<34:22>
<crosstalk 00:34:22> It wouldn’t be through injections, <inaudible 00:34:25> almost a cleaning and sterilization of an area. Maybe it works, maybe it doesn’t work, but it certainly has a big affect if it’s on a stationary object.
<35:06>
He’s saying on surfaces, the heat, the hot summer and whatever other conditions, humidity and lack of humidity, that that would have an impact. So, that on surfaces where it can be picked up, it will die fairly quickly in the summer. Whereas, in the winter it wouldn’t die so quickly.
<35:42>
Well, if it’s on somebody’s hands, right? And they haven’t touched their face and all of that-
<35:49>
I know, but if they’re outside, right, and their hands are exposed to the sun, will that kill it as though it were a piece of metal or something else?
<36:14>
This is sort <inaudible 00:36:14> on pores, this, right?
<36:22>
Wait, wait, wait. Okay, go ahead.
<37:19>
With the children. In fact, I’m thinking about moving outside to the Rose Garden now. No, it’s a very interesting question, actually. Okay. Please, go ahead.
<38:06>
Bill.
<38:53>
And we are working with other countries on vaccines, as you know. Yeah, go ahead, please.
<39:05>
Say it at the beginning. What?
<39:17>
Well, I’ll tell you one thing. I think a lot of people are going to go outside all of a sudden. People that didn’t want to go outside, they’ll be going. To me, this was really a very interesting meeting. We covered in great detail and these are incredible people at that. We could call it a laboratory because that’s essentially what it is. It’s a super laboratory. It’s a lot of things going on at that laboratory, a lot of very interesting things going on in that laboratory.
<41:45>
Okay? Go ahead.
<41:56>
I haven’t at all. I haven’t at all. We’ll see what happens. <crosstalk 00:41:58> We’ve had a lot of very good results and we had some results that perhaps aren’t so good. I don’t know. I just read about one, but I also read many times good. So I haven’t at all. And it’s a great for malaria, for lupus, for other things, and we’ll see what it is. But I guess, Deborah, they have many, many studies going on on that. So we’ll be able to learn.
<42:21>
I have not. I haven’t seen it. I have not seen it. Go ahead, please.
<42:41>
Well, I know a lot about economists.
<42:45>
Sure.
<42:46>
Well, let me know. We know the rest of the question. Right? So I know a lot about economists, and the answer is they have no idea. I think I have as good an idea as anybody and I think our economy will start to pick up very substantially as soon as the states get open, and that’s happening as we speak. And it’s actually very exciting and people are just thrilled to see it because our country has to get back to work. They want to get back to work. You see that whether it’s a demonstration or just in talking to people. They’re going to get back to work and they’re going to get back to work very fast. States are advanced. I look at Gavin Newsom was very nice today. He wrote a beautiful statement about we sent them a lot of things that he needed, okay, different things that he needed. We got it taken care of. They’ve done very well in California, as you know.
<43:35>
They’re doing really well in Florida. They’re doing well in a lot of places. New York and New Jersey got hit very hard. They’re doing very well. I spoke again with Governor Cuomo, with Governor Murphy. They’re doing a great job, and here’s the thing, we have to see. They got hit hard, everyone close together, tied in. People don’t realize New Jersey is very tight. You realize that because you’ve been covering it for a long time, but very tight. New York obviously is very tight. They’re doing a terrific job. I think for the most part, I’ll be able to tell you when it’s all over, but a lot of the governors have done a really terrific job. Some I don’t think have, to be honest, but we’ll be talking about that in future. Yes. Go ahead.
<44:46>
The answer is yes. And the answer is, as you know, and as I’ve said many times, we’re very advanced in testing. Other countries are calling us to find out what are we doing, and by the way, within two weeks, you’ll see numbers and you’ll see different forms of testing, just like we came up with the Abbott Laboratories machine, which gives it to you in five minutes that everybody wants. Everybody’s asking, can we get that? But you can only make them so fast. But as you know, we’ve done more testing than every other nation combined and that’s a big statement, and you know when they talk about different tests and different things, we’re also a bigger nation than most. And so when they look at statistics, because statistically we’re doing phenomenally in terms of mortality, in terms of all of the different elements that you can judge.
<45:33>
When you look, Germany and ourselves are doing very well. We are very accurate in the reporting of numbers. In fact, I’ll go a step further. As you know, in New York they actually added quite a few deaths to a list that was done in New York, and they added a number of deaths, were very, very highly accurate. And then you’ll look at certain lists of other countries. Some are so obvious just to look at where obviously the number’s ridiculous in the form of low because they’re not accurate counts. They’re not even close to accurate counts. In fact, they’re insulting to look at them. So we’ve done very well. Again, testing, we’re doing very well on testing. We’ve tested far more than anybody else, anywhere in the world, and within a short period of time you’ll be hearing about new tests that are coming out that are going to be incredible. Steve, go ahead.
<46:28>
No, I don’t agree with them on that. No, I think we’re doing a great job in testing. I don’t agree. If he said that, I don’t agree with it. Yes.
<46:38>
Well, they’re doing it. I’ll tell you, Steve. They’re doing it at a level that they’ve never done it before. Abbott is a great company. It’s a very big, highly respected company. They came up with this machine where you do it. I’ve done it both ways. I’ve done it this way and I didn’t like it, and I’ve done it the Abbott way where you literally just touch, and five minutes later you know the answer, and we use them in the White House. I think you folks have been given that opportunity, which is much more pleasant than the first way that they looked at you. Right?
<47:08>
We’re making them hundreds of thousands of machines. The advantage to the other tests and the laboratory tests that are we can get millions and millions of those tests done. It takes a day or two days, but you know, because it’s really a delivery situation more than anything else. The test itself goes quickly once it gets to the laboratory. But as we have found, and as we have, I think shown everybody in the room, we have many laboratories. We have so many laboratories. A lot of the governors did not know that we had this capacity, but we have many laboratories all over our country. Every state has laboratories and some have a lot of them. So I think we will come up with things as time goes by. Again, when I started, we ended up, we started with nothing, essentially. We started with a broken test, a test that didn’t work. We started with a test. They did very few people, not millions of people. The problem is if we did 350 million tests, one for each person, the media would say, “Oh, you should have done two for each person.”
<48:15>
No matter what you do, it doesn’t make any difference. It’s just like the ventilators. I talk about it all the time. Nobody ever mentions ventilators. One of the hardest things are ventilators, and now we’re making thousands a week, thousands of ventilators. And they’re calling from Mexico. They’re calling from many countries. I’ve received today four calls. “Would it be possible to send ventilators?” Right? I got four calls today. I got three calls yesterday. No country is equipped like we are. We have 11 different places making ventilators. Our country doesn’t need them now. Our governors are very happy. But that’s different than tests because with the tests you can always say, “Oh, we need more.” No, I think we’ve done incredibly well, obviously with ventilators, we also have 500 million masks, 500 million masks that are very shortly going to be here.
<49:09>
We’ve made millions of masks. We have ordered millions of masks that have arrived and been distributed. We gave one hospital in New York City 300,000 masks. Before the virus, they were using 10,000 and now we got them 300,000, and they got rid of them very quickly, which I sort of say, how did that happen? Why? Because they became very valuable, the masks. So I say, how did that happen? But we’ve done an amazing job and we’ve worked with the governors, and when the governors weren’t able, again, they’re the first line. When they weren’t able to get something, like ventilators, they couldn’t get ventilators. They could have bought them. You could have bought them, but most of them, many of them chose not to. So they all needed ventilators and we got the job done.
<49:56>
I’ll be introducing the team when we’re finished with this whole nightmare, this whole curse, this whole plague, but the team that worked on the ventilators was incredible. And it’s a little bit interchangeable, but the team that’s working on the testing is truly an incredible team. These are brilliant people and they’re doing it for the country. They’re not doing it for other reasons. Some have been very successful. They’re doing it for the country.
<50:26>
Right. They’re signing it probably tonight.
<50:53>
<crosstalk 00:50:53> I don’t think it’s a vicious attack, but certainly some people do look at it that way. I’ve spoken to Mitch about it. I’ve spoken to numerous senators about it, and we’re working with senators that are on the other side of the issue and we’ll see what happens. But we’re looking to do what’s right for the people of this country. We’re looking to do what’s right for a particular state and we’ll see what happens. But it’s certainly the next thing we’re going to be discussing because some states have, in all fairness, John, some states have not done very well for many years long before the virus came. You can’t blame the plague, this horrible plague that came in, and all of a sudden they can’t blame that. You look at Illinois. Now, he’s got a lot of problems long before the virus came in. And so we’ll be talking about it It’ll be a subject for a period of time.
<51:38>
And right now we’ve made this incredible deal for the workers and for small business. And I’m very happy that Harvard didn’t get covered. We actually never sent them the check, but they were very nice about it. We never sent them the money, the old fashioned where’s the check? The new way is send them the money, and we didn’t send them the money, but they were very understanding and they were very nice about it, so was Princeton, so was Stanford, so were a number of other schools that you just don’t associate with this money. So were big companies as you know, you know many of them. It was a relatively small amount of money compared to the haul, very small amount of money compared. But we want it to be fair. We want it to go to the people that are supposed to go to.
<52:28>
I’m open to ideas that are going to be great for the people of this country <crosstalk 00:52:32>, and if we can help states, we’re always going to help states. Now there’s different ways of helping states. Some ways are better than others. So we’re looking. It is interesting that the states that are in trouble do happen to be blue. It is interesting. You know, if you look around, I mean the states that seem to have the problem happened to be Democrat and-
<52:53>
But New York and New Jersey were in a lot of trouble long before the plague came. They had a lot of problems long before the plague came. I spoke with Governor Cuomo about it, spoke to Governor Murphy about it. I spoke with Gavin Newsom about it, and I’m speaking to a lot of people about it because it’s probably going to be the next thing on the list. A lot of people understand very well what Mitch is saying, and they also understand the other side of the problem and I’ll be speaking about it. We’re going to do the right thing for our country, the right thing for our country, and the right thing for a lot of great people. Okay? Yeah, please.
<53:43>
Here we go. Here we go. The new headline is “Trump asks people to go outside. That’s dangerous.” Here we go. Same old group. You ready? I hope people enjoy the sun, and if it has an impact, that’s great. I’m just hearing this, not really for the first time. I mean, there’s been a rumor, a very nice rumor that you go outside in the sun-
<54:03>
…rumor that you know, a very nice rumor that you go outside in the sun or you have heat and it does have an effect on other viruses. But now we get it from one of the great laboratories of the world, I have to say. Covers a lot more territory than just this. This is probably an easy thing, relatively speaking, for you. I would like you to speak to the medical doctors to see if there’s any way that you can apply light and heat to cure. You know? If you could? And maybe you can, maybe you can’t. Again, I say maybe you can, maybe you can’t. I’m not a doctor. But I’m a person that has a good… You know what. Deborah, have you ever heard of that? The heat and the light relative to certain viruses, yes, but relative to this virus?
<54:57>
I think that’s a great thing to look at. Okay?
<55:09>
Hey, Phil. I’m the President and you’re fake news. And you know what I’ll say to you, I’ll say very nicely… I know you well. I know you well because I know the guy, I see what he writes. He’s a total faker. So are you ready? Are you ready? Are you ready? It’s just a suggestion from a brilliant lab by a very, very smart, perhaps brilliant man. He’s talking about sun, he’s talking about heat and you see the numbers. So, that’s it. That’s all I have. I’m just here to present talent. I’m here to present ideas. Because we want ideas to get rid of this thing and if heat is good, and if sunlight is good, that’s a great thing as far as I’m concerned.
<55:46>
Go ahead.
<55:58>
They could have one of what?
<56:02>
Oxford’s one, Johnson & Johnson is working. They’re also working together. You have many companies working together on a vaccine.
<56:16>
Oh, we’ll scale it up. If we had a vaccine, it’ll be scaled up very quickly. In fact, some of the companies, Johnson and Johnson is one, is scaling up already before they have the final answer. A number of companies are doing that. You’ll save a lot of time. The normal is you scale up after, I have to say the FDA has been fantastic. Stephen Haun, Dr. Haun has been fantastic. They’re moving along rapidly, rapidly.
<56:42>
No, I don’t want to put a timescale scale because then the media, the so-called media, lame stream media will say, “He said a time.” I don’t want to say times because every time I say a time, if you don’t hit it they’ll say… So I don’t want to talk about time, but I will say that there’s been tremendous progress made over the last month.
<57:00>
Yeah.
<57:02>
I did.
<57:07>
He called me a few days ago. I will tell you, he sounded incredible. I was actually surprised. I thought it’d be like, “Oh Donald, how are you.” He was ready to go. I’m very surprised to tell you this. It’s like the old Boris. Tremendous energy. Tremendous drive. I was very surprised. Because, he called me pretty close to when he got out of the hospital. I think he’s doing great. I think he’s doing great. He was so sharp and energetic. Pretty incredible. He’s an incredible guy. He’s a friend of ours and a friend of mine. He loves our country. He loves his country a lot, but he loves our country. He respects our country and they’re lucky to have him over there.
<57:50>
Please.
<58:04>
I hope he’s not in medical trouble. I hope he’s-
<58:08>
I’ve gotten along very well with him. And here we are. You would have been in a war with North Korea if I didn’t get elected President. Remember, I was going to be the one that took us into war my first day in office. Okay? Here we are, look at what’s happened. Withdrawal, we’re bringing people home. We’re not going to serve as policemen all over the world. I don’t want to be policemen all over the world.
<58:28>
And yet we built our military to a level that has never been built at before,
<58:33>
But it’s never recognized by the fake news. Go ahead.
<58:41>
I think the report was incorrect, let me just put it that way. I think the report was done by a network that was incorrect. I’m hearing they used old documents. But, that’s what I hear. I hear the report was an incorrect report. I hope it was an incorrect report.
<59:02>
I don’t want to say.
<59:08>
With who?
<59:10>
I don’t want to say. I won’t to say that.
<59:12>
We have a good relationship with North Korea, as good as you can have. I mean we have a good relationship with North Korea. I have a good relationship with Kim Jong Un and I hope he’s okay. And somebody would say, “Oh, that’s terrible.” No, it’s not terrible. I hope he’s okay. And I think it was a fake report done by CNN.
<59:29>
What do you have? No, that’s enough. Go ahead.
<59:33>
The problem is you don’t write the truth. So you know, as far as I’m concerned. I want to go to the next person.
<59:38>
No. Not CNN, please. Go ahead.
<59:41>
I told you, CNN is fake news. Don’t talk to me. Go ahead. Please.
<59:51>
Okay, next question.
<59:57>
Just ask one please.
<01:00:04>
On what?
<01:00:05>
The controversy?
<01:00:10>
I did. I had a good talk with the Governor of Georgia.
<01:00:17>
I did convey the message, I didn’t like the fact that he’s leaving certain things… I want the States to open more than he does, much more than he does. But I didn’t like to see spas at this early stage, nor did the doctors. Is that a correct statement, Deborah? I didn’t like to see spas opening, frankly. I didn’t like to see a lot of things happening and I wasn’t happy with it. And I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. I wasn’t at all happy. I could have done something about it if I wanted to, but I’m saying let the governors do it. But I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. Spas, beauty parlors, tattoo parlors. No, that’s-
<01:00:57>
Excuse me. I want them to open and I want them to open as soon as possible. I want the state to open, but I wasn’t happy with Brian Kemp. I will tell you that right now.
<01:01:07>
Yeah, go ahead.
<01:01:11>
No, he didn’t defy me at all. That’s your language. He didn’t defy me. You know what happened? I said, “You make your own decision.” I told him that. I said, “You’re not in the guidelines but I’m letting you make your own decision. But I want people to be safe and I want the people in Georgia to be safe and I don’t want this thing to flare up because you’re deciding to do something that is not in the guidelines.” And I went to Deborah and Dr. Fauci and other people, and they weren’t thrilled about it. I could have stopped him but I decided, and we all agreed, they got to watch it closely. So we’ll see what happens. I told him very distinctly, Mike was there, I said, “You do what you think is best.” But if you ask me am I happy about it, I’m not happy about it. And I’m not happy about Brian Kemp.
<01:01:57>
Go ahead.
<01:02:16>
If you can do it quickly, that’d be great. You see on the charts, <crosstalk 01:02:16> But you have to ask the question, but you do see it on the charts.
<01:03:35>
Go ahead, please.
<01:03:44>
Yeah, that’s a problem.
<01:03:59>
Look, I can’t tell you what’s going to happen in and election. Yeah, great question. I can’t tell you what’s going to happen. We have a sleepy guy in a basement of a house that the press is giving a free pass to, who doesn’t want to do debates because of Covid. And lots of things are happening, right? And I watched a couple of interviews and I say, “Oh, I look forward to this.” But, they’re keeping them sheltered because of the coronavirus and he’s not moving around. He’s not moving too much. Then I watch what the press does to the Republican party and to me in particular.
<01:04:37>
We had the greatest economy ever put together, this as a month and a half ago. We were doing numbers the likes of which we’ve never done. African American, Asian American, Hispanic American best employment numbers ever in the history of our country. Our employment numbers, the best in the history of our country, almost 160 million people. The stock market record numbers many, many times during my tenure. Many, many times.
<01:05:03>
But now we have a country that we had to close because of this. And frankly if we didn’t close it, we would have lost millions of people possibly. But certainly we would have lost a million people. You take the high number and cut it in half, cut it in half again. But, whether it would have been 600, 700, 800 you take a look at the travesty that there is. You take a look at this horrible, horrible scene of hospitals with bodies and black body bags. Right? Multiply that times 10, 15, or even 20, because that would have happened. So we did the right thing. So far, we did the right thing. So far, we’ve called it right.
<01:05:43>
We’ve mobilized like it was a military operation and it was largely a military operation. Between ventilators and testing and so many other things that we’ve had a lot of good partners, not all good partners, but we had a lot of good partners. Gavin Newsom, today, thanked us very much. Gavin Newsom, California, thanked us so much for getting him all the things that he needed so he can keep going and keep doing a good job. We got it to him today. Tomorrow we’re getting him even more. Would have been harder for him to get it than us. We agreed to get it, we got it on time. He said, “Promises made, promises kept.” He actually said that in a statement today.
<01:06:18>
We’ve done a good job. We’ve gotten very little credit for the great job we’ve done because of the media. Because the media is not an honest media, in my opinion. Much of it, not all of it, we have some great reporters that I have tremendous respect… But much of the media is not honest.
<01:06:31>
So, I can’t tell you about the election. You have a Democrat Party and you have a large portion of the media automatically giving the guy a pass. He’s been given a pass. Whether or not he’s going to be the nominee, I have no idea, but he’s getting a pass. And the media isn’t covering the great job that we’ve done. Whether it’s Mike’s task force, which has been incredible. Whether it’s the way we mobilized, in a warlike operation, to build these incredibly complex and very expensive ventilators. They’re very expensive to build and very complex. The job we’ve done has been an amazing job, and I’m not talking about me, I’m talking about everybody. I’m talking about the generals, the admirals, Deborah and Tony. And now, Bill, something we hadn’t heard today.
<01:07:23>
I can’t tell you what’s going to happen with the election. I think that had we not gone through a fake, “Russia, Russia, Russia deal,” an impeachment hoax, it was a total hoax. From the day I got elected. But you know it wasn’t a day, it was many months before I got elected. This has been a witch hunt that was illegal. It was an illegal witch hunt. It was illegal. And with all of that, I’m doing fine because the people see we’re doing a great job. And you know what? We’ll continue to do a great job. If we had an honest press, this country would be even greater. Thank you. Thank you, very much.
