<03:41>
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. This week, America continues our aggressive effort to defeat the virus as we enter a crucial and difficult phase of the battle. We continue to send our prayers to the people of New York in New Jersey and to our whole country, but right now New York and New Jersey are very hot zones and we’re with them. We’re with everybody. Your struggle is our struggle and we will beat this virus. We will beat it together. I also want to send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, prime minister, Boris Johnson. We’re very saddened to hear that he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago, and Americans are all praying for his recovery. He’s been a really good friend, he’s been really something very special. Strong, resolute, doesn’t quit, doesn’t give up.
<04:48>
We have made tremendous progress on therapeutics. I had a fantastic call today, which I’ll be talking about a little bit later and I’ve asked two of the leading companies, these are brilliant companies, Ebola, AIDS, others, they’ve come with the solutions and just have done incredible jobs. And I’ve asked them to contact London immediately. They have offices in London and major companies, but more than major, more than size, they’re genius. And I had a talk with four of them today and they speak a language that most people don’t even understand, but I understand something that they’ve really advanced therapeutics and therapeutically and they have arrived in London already. Their London office has whatever they need, and we’ll see if we can be of help. We’ve contacted all of Boris’s doctors and we’ll see what is going to take place, but they are ready to go. But when you get brought into intensive care, that gets very, very serious with this particular disease.
<06:00>
So the two companies are there and with what they are talking about and it’s rather complex and has had really incredible results. We’re working with the FDA and everybody else, but we are working with London, with respect to Boris Johnson. Across the country we’re attacking the enemy in all fronts, including medical, scientific, social, logistical and economic. We’re pressing into action the full power of American government and American enterprise and our military has been incredible. We’ve just sent 3,000 public health personnel. They’re now deployed in the New York area and they’ll be over at the Javits center, over at the great ship.
<06:51>
As you probably have heard, and I was informed that Governor Cuomo has already told you and announced, he called me up a little while ago and he asked whether or not it would be possible to use the ship with respect to fighting the virus. And we hadn’t had that in mind at all, but we’re going to let him do it and we’re also going to let New Jersey, Governor Murphy, we spoke with him a little while ago, and New Jersey is going to use it also because New Jersey is a hotspot. So Governor Murphy and governor Cuomo are going to be using the ship from New York, New Jersey and it’s a big ship and it’s now COVID. It’s set for COVID, and we are going to … Hopefully that will be very helpful to both states.
<07:46>
The Javits Center, which has 2,900 beds just built by our military also is going to be manned now by the military and they should be in place tomorrow and they’ll start sending quite a few people over to the Javits Center. It’s convenient, it’s right in the middle of everything so that’ll be something great, and we appreciated Governor Cuomo’s nice, really nice statements and likewise Governor Murphy. We have worked very well with both of them and with, frankly, all of the governors. Vice President Pence had a call this morning with them that lasted for close to two hours, and I understand there wasn’t a negative person on the call. 50 governors or just about 50 governors. I think they were all on, from what I understood, and they were very positive about everything their federal government has been doing for them.
<08:42>
You’ll hear what that is, and it’s rather amazing, actually. Nationwide, the Army Corps of Engineers is building 22 field hospitals, these are big hospitals, and alternate care sites in 18 states. So you have a combination of 22 field hospitals. In addition to that, we’re building ultimate care sites, which is a little bit of a smaller version of the hospital, and we have a lot of them and they’re going up in 18 different states. In total we have deployed 8,450 hospital beds from federal stockpiles, and if you think this has done over really a period of weeks, that’s incredible, actually.
<09:26>
More than 8,000 ventilators have been sent from the national stockpile to our cities and States backed by the defense production act, which we’ve used very strongly, very powerfully. So powerfully that we don’t have to use it too much, frankly, and it’s nice to when you don’t have to. We’re getting more than we ever bargained for. American industry is stepping up. Manufacturers are really going to town and we have thousands of ventilators being built as we speak and we have hundreds that are being sent to different locations and we’re ready to roll with almost 10,000 that we have in the federal stockpile.
<10:07>
When I say ready to roll to, I mean exactly what that states. We are … Wherever that monster goes, we’re able to move with it. Great flexibility. We have tremendous flexibility, and we have people waiting and they’re ready, willing and able, but waiting to bring them wherever it may be if they need it. If they need it, it’s possible that they won’t be needed, that we’re fully stocked because numbers are coming in where because of what the American people are doing, we’re having fewer hospital visits. I think that could be the case in New York. It could be the case in a few other states. And fewer beds, fewer hospital visits mean fewer ventilators. So we’ll see whether or not our original projections were right. But anyway, I had a very good talk with both governors and I think they’re very happy, extremely happy about what we’re doing for them. And especially going all COVID. So that’ll take place almost immediately.
<11:09>
FEMA and HHS have directly distributed 11.7 million N95 respirators. Think of that. Get the number. 11.7 million N95 respirators, 11.7 million. 26.5 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns, and 22.6 million gloves, 22.6 million gloves. We have also arranged for our vast quantities of additional materials to be allocated through donations and existing supply chains. We’ve also given tremendous medical material and supplies throughout the 50 states and territories and through Project Airbridge, we have succeeded in bringing plane loads of vital supplies into the United States from overseas. We had an additional three … These are massive planes by the way. They’re big planes, very big, very powerful and that they’re loaded to the gills with supplies and rather than bringing them into our stock file, as we’ve discussed, we bring them to all the different locations where they’re needed so we can save a big step, and a timely step.
<12:33>
Because of my actions under the DPA, I can also announce today that we have reached an agreement, very amicable agreement with 3M for the delivery of an additional 55.5 million high quality face masks each month so that we’re going to be getting, over the next couple of months, 166.5 million masks for our frontline healthcare workers. So the 3M saga ends very happily. We’re very proud to be dealing now with 3M and its CEO, Mike Roman. I just spoke with him and I thanked him for getting it done and Mike was very happy to get it done. Great company. So we’re getting 166.5 million masks and mostly that’s going to be for our front line healthcare workers. Okay. That’s 3M, thank you 3M. Three on. I also want to thank Apple, one of the many great American companies that’s taken into … That’s really leapt into action. Today Apple announced that it is now producing plastic face shields for healthcare workers at the rate of one million per week. One million. And these are the shields that you see on television quite a bit and they’re at the highest level of quality and safety.
<14:03>
We’re grateful as well to Salesforce, which has donated 48 million pieces of personal protective equipment, including masks, gowns, suits and face shields. So thank you very much to Salesforce. I urge all of our nation’s governors to ensure that the massive deliveries that we’ve made to your states over the past few weeks are distributed as quickly as possible. So again, we’re working very well with the governors. Now they may see you and say, “Oh, we’re not happy.” But they’re very happy on the phone. And Mike Pence is a straight shooter and he had a great phone conversation to them with all of the … Teleconference and they’re very happy, every one of them. Were there any negatives?
<14:51>
See? I told you. Mike is the greatest. Mike … And you have done a great job. Mike, and I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it. Anthony appreciates it, right? Don’t you? See? Everybody appreciates Mike. Special man. So a lot of the things that we’ve done, again, are going directly to the states. The states seem to be very happy if they’re not, they can call me directly, they can call Mike directly and we’ll make them happy. But tremendous progress has been made in a very short period. And I think very importantly the progress has been made before the surge comes. Because the next week, week and a half is going to be a big surge, the professionals tell us, and I think we’re in good shape for it, Anthony, so it’s good timing, really good timing. We can have this stuff there. It’s already there for the most part, but we’re bringing a lot of different resources to the various locations, especially where the surge is looking like it’s going to take place. Resources from the national stockpile need to reach our warriors, and they are warriors.
<15:55>
I tell it all the time. I saw it again this morning. These young and many cases, many cases older, but they’re walking into the hospital and they’re putting on … I mean, as their doors open, they’re going into this place and it’s not exactly to safe and they’re going in there and they’re putting the outfits on, they’re putting their masks on and they’re … It’s incredible. It’s like no different than you watch the war movies or you watch the old clips of war, running up hills. To me it’s the same thing. Men and women, young and old, but a lot of young people just going in there. They’re not thinking about, “Oh gee, this is dangerous.” They’re not saying, “I don’t want to go in.” They’re warriors, they’re running through those doors. It’s the most incredible thing. It’s beautiful, it’s an incredible, beautiful thing.
<16:48>
Resources from the national stockpile need to reach these warriors in the hospitals immediately, and we’re making sure they do. And again, the states have that responsibility, but we’re working with the states, we’re getting the states a lot of things that they could distribute, or when they tell us we bring it directly to the hospital from the federal stockpile or from the planes that land, without even going to the stockpile. If any state’s having difficulty distributing supplies, we urge you to use the National Guard to assist in the delivery. And I have to say you have done a fantastic job. Debra, you know that you’ve done great. Tony, you know that you’ve done great, but what a job you’ve done and I appreciate it. I really do. Your whole group has been incredible. That’s a lot of stars you have. I’ll tell you that. He’s supposed to do a great job when you have four stars. Right? But the military has been incredible and I thank them for all of us.
<17:49>
Conversely, if a state believes that it has surplus equipment or supplies, very important because we actually have gotten so much to some of the States that they are able to now … They’ve done a fantastic job and they’ve kept that line low and we have some States that have surplus equipment and supplies and they’re working with us to rapidly redeploy those supplies to areas of greatest need. We thought that might happen. If it worked out well, that’s what was going to happen and it’s happening and I want to thank Governor Gavin Newsome, who is doing a tremendous job, who’s announced California will send 500 ventilators to be distributed to other locations. I think some are going to Arizona, some are going to Washington DC.
<18:38>
We think they’re going to Delaware. We’re working to that, but 500 excess of ventilators from the state of California and we’re going to get them taken care of wherever they have to go. Those decisions are being made right now. The members of the White House task force and I are in close touch with mayors and governors and hospital administrators of course our country, and we’re told that the present time, at the present time, most of the critical needs are being more than met. States have to continue sharing detailed information and the amount and utilization rates of medical supplies so we know what to resupply them or they can get it directly. That includes ventilators. They can get it directly, ideally they can get it directly, but if they can’t, if they’re unable to do it, we have tremendous amounts of supplies and we’re building it up very fast too, and this is before the big surge.
<19:40>
This information is fundamental to our ability to deliver the material when and where it’s most needed. Now, Mike in his conversation today, I think got some information as to a couple of locations where we’re going to be delivering large numbers of ventilators and large numbers of medical supplies, and we’ll take care of that. But some of the States are very happy. Even Governor Pritzker from Illinois is happy. Of course, he may not be happy when he talks to the press, but he’s happy. He’s a very happy man. We’re increasingly hopeful that the aggressive mitigation strategy we put into place will ultimately allow our hospital system to successfully manage the major influx of cases that we have right now. Again, I say that we’re finding, because of the incredible job done by the American people, in conjunction with everybody, governors, the military, federal government, state government, local government, had a lot of conversations with New York City and Mayor De Blasio.
<20:50>
I’ve gotten to know him. I didn’t know him, gotten to know him and a lot of people are working hard. Everybody’s working hard. A lot of people are doing a great job, tell you that, a lot of people are doing a great job. But the goal is that all Americans have been sacrificing to achieve these last few weeks, things that a lot of people thought were not possible to achieve, and I think we’ve more than achieved, but we have to go through, again, we’re going to have a rough week. We’re going to have maybe a rough little more than a week, but there’s tremendous light at the end of that tunnel. I said it last time, said it last night. There’s tremendous light at the end of the tunnel. There’s so many things happening with therapeutics, with vaccines, with things that we really want. Debra, Tony, they’re all working so hard on this, but those therapeutics,
<21:41>
I mean, look, the vaccines are going to be always a little bit later because of that testing period. But the therapeutics getting the kinds of things that I heard about today, talking to these brilliant companies and brilliant people on the phone was fantastic. It was such an incredible conversation. I also spoke just a few minutes ago with former Vice President Biden who called and we had a really wonderful warm conversation. It was a very nice conversation. We talked about pretty much this, this is what we talked about, this is what everyone’s talking about, this is what they want to talk about. And he gave me his point of view and I fully understood that, and we just had a very friendly conversation. Lasted probably 15 minutes, and it was really good. It was really good. Really nice. I think it was very much so. I appreciate his calling. As we continue our efforts to develop treatments and cures, this afternoon I spoke with leaders of the American pharmaceutical companies, and just to give you their names, Amgen, Genentech, Gilead, Regeneron. These are four of the greatest in the world for doing exactly what they’re doing.
<23:04>
Currently 10 different therapeutic agents are inactive trials and some are looking incredibly successful, but we have to go through a process and it’s got to be a fairly quick process, I will tell you, based on what the FDA told me. And another 15 are in plans for clinical trials, so they’re advancing rapidly and today a second company announced that the FDA has authorized its vaccine candidate to begin clinical trial. So you have Johnson and Johnson is already there. I believe they’re the one that’s first, and now we have a second company that just announced and we were just … Was just approved. So we have two companies at level for the vaccine. We’ve now performed 100 … Well, if you think of this, 1.79 million tests, that’s 1,790,000 test nationwide. And I think we’re going to put up a screen here someplace that they’re on cue, but just on cue.
<24:07>
Here it is. This is the process starting on five March and ending right there, right about now, right? That’s about it. And it’s going up at a rapid rate. Nobody has done more testing. And one of the reasons why they say, and I think I can say this, Debra, very strongly, but one of the reasons that we have more cases is we’ve done more testing. And if I went to some of these countries that have, in my opinion, far more people than we do that had the problem. And if we did the kind of testing proportionally that we’re doing that have many more cases than us, but we have more cases because we do much more testing. So when you do the testing, you have cases, otherwise you wouldn’t know about the cases. People sit home, you don’t know about it. But we have now done 1, 790,000 tests nationwide.
<25:03>
That’s more than any other country in the world, hence we have more cases and that number is growing by nearly 125,000 people per day. Think of that one. So it’s growing by 125,000 people per day. I told you about South Korea. This is vastly faster and we also have, they say, the most accurate of tests. CVS is launching, and they’ve been great, two new drive through testing sites and Atlanta, Georgia and Providence, Rhode Island and each location would be able to test up to 1,000 patients per day using the ultra fast five minute test developed by Abbott Labs. Now they’re down to five minutes. They go to the ultra fast. It’s very accurate. Abbott Labs, I want to thank them. They’ve been fantastic. We’re also speeding urgent economic relief to the American worker and families and the employers.
<26:05>
As of today, tens of thousands of small businesses have applied for more than $40 billion in relief under the paycheck protection program. You’ve all been reading about it and it’s really … I mean, it’s only been going for a couple of days. It’s really been performing well. A couple of little glitches, minor glitches that are already been taken care of, what they say. These funds were resulted in nearly two million jobs being preserved, so we’re taking care of our workers, small businesses and our workers. Nearly 3,000 lenders have already made loans under the program and we’re signing up additional lenders very quickly, rapidly. Community banks have been very responsive and larger banks are also stepping up if this … If we run out of funds, by the way, we’re already preparing because it’s going so fast for the small businesses and their employees, we’ll ask Congress to refill it immediately, but the banks have been great.
<27:01>
The big banks, the Bank of America was right up there at the beginning. JP Morgan Chase was … Has been great. After the first day, they really came through and a lot of the big banks, but the community banks have been fantastic. As we announced last week, we are providing $100 billion in direct support for our hospitals. And the first traunch, $30 billion, will be distributed this week. I want to say one other thing. Our farmers, we love our farmers, and as you know, as of April 1st the China trade deal, $250 billion, they purchased $250 billion from us, if not more. And of that, approximately 50 billion is expected to be with our farmers. So it kicked in as of April 1st and we’ll see how it goes. It seems like they’re buying. So we’ll let you know how that’s going, but they’re buying anywhere from 40 to $50 billion worth of our agricultural product. That should have a huge impact on our farmers, a tremendous impact on our farmers. But we’re watching it very closely.
<28:14>
To fight the medical war, we’ve mobilized the unbeatable and it just … It is unbeatable strength of American determination, ingenuity and compassion. I got to see that when I spoke to the great science, because I call them science companies more than drug companies, they’re scientists. We’ve seen businesses, charities, and private citizens making generous donations. So many people are making donations. We’ve seen states and cities supporting and helping each other and caring for our citizens, and we’ve seen Americans of all backgrounds and beliefs uniting together to answer the challenge and rise to the moment, and that’s what they’re doing. Above all, we’ve been awed, inspired by the exceptional courage of the doctors, nurses, EMTS, and healthcare workers, who are the soldiers of this war. No words can ever express the complete measure of our gratitude for these intrepid heroes.
<29:14>
One Cleveland patient credited his medical team for not only saving his life through their skill, but forever changing his life through their example of selfless devotion. Couldn’t believe it. So generous he was with his statements and he talked about their bravery in an area that was in such trouble, an area of that hospital where people were dying and he talked about their bravery. Another survivor in Euston said simply, “I will consider them my angels forever.” I will consider them, think of that, my angels forever as our nation endures the depths of loss and grief. We also witnessed to the summit of American virtue, character, and courage with the love and dedication of every American Patriot. We will win this battle, we will defeat this enemy, and we will rise from this present crisis with new strength, unity, and resolve and that’s what’s happening.
<30:13>
Tremendous stories are coming out of this horrible moment, very dark moment for the world. 182. I was saying 151 for a while and then it got up to 160 and 182, as I announced yesterday, 182 countries are being attacked by this virus. So I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank the American citizens for doing a great job. Stay inside and let’s win this and let’s get our country open as soon as we can. I think it’s going to be sooner than people think. Things are going really well. Again, light at the end of the tunnel. And with that I’ll take a few questions and then Mike is going to take over and talk with the admiral and with the professionals and we appreciate you being here. Yes, please?
<31:15>
Yeah, it’s a very complex treatment of things that they’ve just recently developed and that they have a lot of experience with having to do with something else, but recent for this. And they’ve already concurred, they’ve already had meetings with the doctors and we’ll see whether or not they want to go that route. But when you’re in intensive care, it’s a big deal. So they’re there and they’re ready. I think we have … Well, we have three of them. I spoke with four, you know who the four would be, and the people within those, you’d know the companies, I told you the companies, but the people are the greatest in the world. So they’re at the hospital and we’ll see. And they have everything with them should it be needed. Hopefully it won’t have to be needed, but should it be needed. I found Boris to be a fantastic person, just like a fantastic warm, strong, smart guy. He loves his country. You see that. I mean, he fought like hell for his country. And intensive care is big stuff. Really big.
<32:37>
I don’t think so. Mike had his test a couple of days ago. I had my test couple of days ago. And we’re here and here you are. So no, I don’t think so. But I think we’ll probably … Just because of the questions like that, I think we’ll probably have maybe quite a few tests. It’s not the worst idea. The system of testing now is so quick and so easy. So I could see … And you were tested again today? You sure you’re okay?
<33:03>
<inaudible 00:33:08>.
<33:31>
Did I hear the word inspector general? Really? It’s wrong. And they’ll talk to you about it. It’s wrong.
<33:39>
Well, where did he come from, the inspector general. What’s his name?
<33:43>
What’s his name?
<33:45>
Well, find me his name, let me know. Okay? If you find me his name, I’d appreciate it.
<33:51>
All I can tell you is this. It’s been put up on the board, you’re going to ask the admiral, but we are doing-
<34:03>
We’ve done more-
<34:03>
We’ve I’ve done more testing and had more results than any country, anywhere in the world. They’re doing an incredible job now. They’re all calling us. They want our testing. What are we doing? How do you do the five minute test? How do you do the 15 minute test? So give me the name of the inspector general. Could politics be entered into that? Go ahead, please. Go ahead.
<34:36>
I don’t like that decision. I didn’t hear that that was his decision. I know that he stopped it for other countries. I spoke to him yesterday. We had a very good talk and we’ll see whether or not that is. I would be surprised if he would because India does very well with the United States. For many years they’ve been taken advantage of the United States on trade. So I would be surprised if that were his decision. He’d have to tell me that. I spoke to him Sunday morning, called him, and I said, we’d appreciate your allowing our supply to come out. If he doesn’t allow it to come out, that would be okay. But of course there may be retaliation. Why wouldn’t there be? Yeah.
<35:18>
I don’t think so. I think it’s done very well.
<35:23>
Not any more they haven’t.
<35:29>
Bank of America has been the leader. Taking tremendous numbers of applications, and of course there may have been, they wanted to have a slightly different application. They wanted to have a little different information, but Bank of America has been a leader. They had number one in terms of applications.
<35:45>
I wish you’d ask the question differently. Why don’t you say “It’s gotten off to a tremendous start, but there were some little glitches,” which by the way, have been worked out. It will be so much nicer if you do that, but you’re just incapable of asking a question.
<36:01>
It’s already done. It’s already done.
<36:05>
It’s taking the measures and we may even do a different system. Not with this. We’re going to have to probably add more money to this to save and to keep our small businesses going and to keep the employees of those small businesses working. But it’s such a positive event and you ask it in such a negative way. It’s just, I wish we had a fair media in this country and we really don’t. Speaking of unfair, go right ahead.
<36:45>
Well I haven’t heard it exactly. I haven’t heard. I heard they had a statement that was made. If that were the statement, it’s a strong statement. Look, the letters shouldn’t have been sent and certainly they shouldn’t have been leaked. This is a military operation. I must tell you, I’ve heard very good things about the gentleman, both gentlemen, by the way, I will say this, but about both gentlemen. And I may look into it only from the standpoint that something should be resolved because I’m hearing good things about both people.
<37:20>
I may just get involved if it’s okay with you. Because you know what? You have two good people and they’re arguing and I’m good, believe it or not, at settling arguments. I’m good at settling these arguments. So I may look into it in detail and I’ll be able to figure it out very fast.
<37:38>
But that was a statement. It’s a rough statement, but look letters should not have been sent to many people unclassified. That was a mistake. It’s a mistake that shouldn’t have been made because it’s unfair to the families of the people on the ship because they get nervous and it shows weakness and there’s nothing weak about us now. Not anymore.
<38:03>
We have the strongest military we’ve ever had, and we’re not going to be showing weakness to anybody because we have… That ship is incredible, nuclear powered aircraft carrier. And we don’t want to be doing writing letters. We don’t want to have letter writing campaigns where the fake news finds a letter or gets a leak. We don’t want that. So the letter, excuse me, so the letter shouldn’t have been sent.
<38:25>
With all of that said his career prior to that was very good. So I’m going to get involved and see exactly what’s going on there because I don’t want to destroy somebody for having a bad day. Okay. Does that make sense?
<38:49>
He did. We agreed that we weren’t going to talk about what we said, but we had a very, very good talk. It was a warm talk. I enjoyed it. I hope he enjoyed it too. And it was short. It was 15 minutes.
<39:03>
He had suggestions. It doesn’t mean that I agree with those suggestions, but certainly he had suggestions, and I also told him some of the things we’re doing, but the conversation was a friendly, very friendly conversation.
<39:26>
It will be a difficult week and a half.
<39:47>
If Dr. Fauci said that I would be inclined to call them up. We do have a constitutional problem in doing that. You understand that? There’s a double edge, so you understand. I can do it, but it is a constitutional, you can say Federalists, you can say there’s lots of different reasons where I would rather have the governors do it, make their own determination. They’re smaller, and not in all cases, but sort of their smaller cases. But I’m not sure 100% that Dr. Fauci said that. But you can ask him. Do you want to say something please.
<41:07>
Go ahead.
<42:13>
I think that with the therapies and I think that with the vaccines, which I have total confidence are coming and I’m dealing with the companies, I’m talking to Johnson and Johnson, I’m talking to all of them. I think that when you add the tremendous stimulus that we’re giving, like for instance, deductibility for restaurant expenses, for restaurants and entertainment. The money that we’re talking about for small businesses and employers to keep everybody working, and other things that we’re frankly working on right now, which are going to be great for our people. I think when you add that to it, I think we could get more than back to normal from an economic standpoint, actually be better but more than back to normal.
<42:54>
But I would agree that we’d love to see a vaccine but immediately would love to see a therapeutic, and I think we’re getting great close.
<43:06>
I don’t want to comment on that. But I can tell you that we certainly want to try. We certainly want to see what’s going on. We’re doing very well. Look, you look at most places where you can call it the bump. You could go up the hill, you could go up the mountain, you can call it whatever you want to do it. It’s very flat. You take a look. And that was done through mitigation. That was done through a lot of good work. And that far exceeded our expectations before.
<43:32>
People can’t even believe how low some of those bumps are, some of those hills are, they’re very surprised. They have a couple of tough ones. New Jersey has been very tough and New York has been very tough. They’re crowded in. It’s tight, it’s tougher, but far exceeding, California far exceeds, Washington State far exceeds. You look at so many of these states how well they’re doing.
<43:59>
The eight states by the way. And I haven’t spoken to the governors, but Tony’s so right. They may not have it from the standpoint that they’re saying it, but those people are practicing it and they’re doing a fantastic job. Take a look at where they are in terms of the levels, but take a look where they are. But if I thought it was something that, and I’ve looked at them and I’ve looked at them very carefully. I looked at them today, looked at them yesterday. From a constitutional standpoint, I’d love not to get involved with that and not from a legal standpoint, just from a moral constitutional standpoint. Because legally I can, but morally, and I believe in our constitution much more so than most people. And I’d love to be able to let the governors do what they have to do. Those states are doing a fantastic job. All eight of them, they’re doing a fantastic job. So we’ll see what happens. As for your question, you fully understand what I’m saying. So thank you.
<45:17>
I think Boris was looking at it differently. He was looking at it earlier. He was looking at it like ride it out. There were many people thinking about riding it out. Meaning whatever it is, it is. But then you see what starts to happen and the numbers become monumental and they decided not to do that. And we actually moved early. We moved early because of what we did with respect to the ban on China coming in. And then Europe coming in. That was an early ban too. And then UK.
<45:47>
So no, he waited a little while and he felt that, but he made a decision very quickly thereafter to do what they did and they’ve gone to a very strict lockdown. But they’re suffering greatly as a nation right now. They’re going through a lot. They’re a nation that’s having a difficult time. But I’ve gotten to know him. He’s just such an incredible guy. It was just so shocking to see that because you know what that means. Intensive care is a big deal with regard to what we’re talking about. That’s a very big deal. Very scary deal.
<46:38>
I can get you that information. I think they’d probably be willing to give that, right? Yeah, we could get you that information. Jeff.
<46:57>
We’ll you’re the first one that’s told me that. We’ll have to make that decision and maybe we will. Maybe we won’t, but we’ll have to make that decision. I think the cuts are automatic, if you’re a believer in markets. I can guarantee you there’s a cut from pre this condition. This happened because of the virus. The virus knocked out 40%. It went down in one hour, literally when places close up, you’re talking about a 40% cut. Now, I think it’s happening automatically, but nobody’s asked me that question yet, so we’ll see what happens. I’ll let you know Thursday evening.
<47:36>
I think it’s automatic. because they’re already cutting. If you look, they’re cutting back because it’s market, it’s demand, it’s supply and demand. They’re already cutting back and they’re cutting back very seriously.
<47:51>
Nobody’s asked me that. So if they ask I’ll make a decision. Okay. But again, it’s happening anyway. Yes please.
<48:07>
Yes, so I had physical, the first half was very successful. I did it on a day when I was in the White House and we were able to do that as the doctor reported. And I have some… The second half of the physical different, probably is done at Walter Reed and I’ll do that at the appropriate time, but I feel very good and according to the doctor very good shape.
<48:38>
I told you. I told you. He understood very well. I appreciate your understanding.
<48:42>
It’s called the Constitution of the United States and I’d rather have if possible, the governors to make the decision. If a decision was very necessary, and they have done a good job and Tony said it better than anybody. They are doing what we’re asking them to do without having to put the seal on it. But I will say if I thought it was necessary, I’ll do it in a heartbeat.
<49:09>
Opening what?
<49:11>
I haven’t seen, I’m going to have to see to what extent, I’m going to have to see how many people you’re talking about. Are they crowded? Are they packed? Are they not packed? We’ll have to take a look at it. Right now it’s very early for beaches in Georgia, so right now very early, so I’ll take a look at it. He’s done a very good job as the governor. He knows what he’s doing, but we’ll have to take a look. It really does depend on how crowded it may be, but I will talk to him and I will ask him that question. I would ask him. Yes please.
<49:44>
We’re looking at it and the airlines have been cutting their routes. You saw that yesterday. They announced big cuts in routes. We need some some flights for emergency use for military people. We need some flights for medical people. And there are very few flights as you know, and the flights that are going out I think they said they’re 3% to 4% full. You have 3% of the plane that’s occupied, so they’re generally very, very empty planes.
<50:16>
But it’s good to have. it’s a tiny amount of flights relative to the overall. And we need them also for medical workers. Otherwise we’re going to have to do a whole big thing with our own planes. So they’re done for a reason. There’s also testing done when people get onto those planes and also when people get off the planes.
<50:48>
It still could be her opinion. When was she appointed? When was she appointed?
<50:53>
Will you do me a favor.
<50:55>
No, no, no. Let me know now. I have to know now, John. Let me know now because we are doing an incredible job in testing. We are doing a better job than anybody in the world right now in testing. There’s nobody close and other nations admit this. Other nations have admitted it very strongly. Other nations are calling us wanting to know about our testing. Let me know when she was appointed, would you?
<51:19>
Okay, thank you very much. Go ahead.
<51:44>
Looks like a statement more than a question.
<52:00>
We just signed a trade deal. It’s the biggest deal probably ever made and I hope they’re going to honor that trade deal. If they don’t honor the trade deal, then I’ll tell you a different answer, but I think they will. They’re going to spend billions of dollars for agriculture. They’re going to spend billions of dollars for many different things. Whereas China never spent money in our country. We spent money. We had a deficit, a trade deficit with China for years of $500 billion, $400 billion. We had the biggest trade deficits in the history of the world with China. Now China has agreed to spend $250 billion, many billions of dollars in our country. Much of it going to farmers and manufacturers. So I’ll let you know.
<52:48>
I hope they’re going to honor the deal. We’ll find out.
<52:52>
I don’t know. Who are you working for? China? You work for China? Are you with a newspaper? Who are you with?
<52:59>
Who owns that? China. Is it owned by China?
<53:02>
Is it owned by the state?
<53:06>
Okay, good. Look, I’ll let you know. I’ll give you a good answer to that in a few months. I wanted to just see what they do. Because it’s time for them to help us. It’s time right now for China to help us and hopefully they do. And if they don’t that’s okay too. But we signed a deal. It was signed with great goodwill and spirit and it’s time that our farmers benefited, our manufacturers benefited, and we’ll see whether or not that deal is honored.
<53:36>
And I think it will be because I know president Xi who I like and respect, and I think he will honor the deal he made with us. It just went into effect four days ago. I will see whether or not… In fact, I called up just a little while ago, I said, “How are the farmers doing with respect to China? Are they buying the product as anticipated?” And the answer was “yeah, I think so,” but it wasn’t the most positive but it was starting. The deal just started. So I’ll let you know. But for many, many years China ate our lunch because we had people in this position that I’m in right now that allowed China to get away with absolute murder and it should have never happened. But we are now dealing with China. We’ll see what happens.
<54:27>
Wait, how many do you want to ask?
<54:35>
We’re going to take a look at it. Go ahead.
<54:38>
Don’t interrupt.
<54:50>
I can’t tell you, but I know it goes out very quickly once the loan applications approved. And the process is very fast and you have to understand these are banks and this is what they do, but they were swamped. They were actually swamped. Okay, go ahead.
<55:11>
Put the slide up again please.
<55:18>
Are you ready? Are you ready? Hospitals can do their own testing also. States can do their own testing. States, they’re supposed to be doing testing. Hospitals as opposed to be doing testing. Do you understand that? We’re the federal government. Listen, we’re the federal government. We’re not supposed to stand on street corners doing testing. They go to doctors, they go to hospitals, they go to the state. The state is a more localized government. You have 50 of them and they can go… you also have territories as you know.
<55:49>
And they do the testing and if you look at the chart, if you take a look, did they put it up? Yeah, just take a look. And these are testing, and the results are now coming in very quickly. Initially speaking, the tests were old, obsolete and not really prepared. We have a brand new testing system that we developed very quickly and that’s your result. And you should say, congratulations. Great job. Instead of being so horrid in the way you ask a question, please go ahead. I’d love to have the Admiral speak to that question. Yes.
<58:32>
How long has that person been in government?
<58:37>
Oh, you didn’t tell me that. Oh, I see. You didn’t tell me that, John. You didn’t tell me that. Did serve in the previous admin. You mean the Obama administration? Thank you for telling me that. See, there’s a typical fake news deal.
<58:53>
You’re a third rate reporter and what you just said is a disgrace. You asked me, you said, “sir, just got appointed.” Take a look at what you said now. I said, “When did this person, how long in government?” Well, it was appointed in the Obama administration. Thank you very much, John. Thank you very much. You will never make it. Go ahead please.
<01:00:21>
It’s about 9,000, just so you understand. It’s about 9,000. And by the way, you didn’t tell me you also that this inspector general came out of the Obama administration. You didn’t tell me that. Okay, please go ahead. <crosstalk 01:00:37>.
<01:00:49>
No, I understood his views before the call.
<01:00:53>
I just think he’s very nice. I think he’s a nice man. I’ve always thought he was a nice man. I don’t know him. I don’t know if I ever spoke to him before other than to say hello, but I think he’s a nice man. We had a very nice call.
<01:01:09>
No, not really. We’re doing a great job. Hey, I inherited, we this administration. We inherited a broken system both militarily, but we’ve rebuilt our military. We now have so much ammunition where as you remember it, very important, general said, “sir, we have no ammunition.” They wanted to save money on ammunition. They didn’t want to save money because they spent money like nobody ever spent money. But you know what? We now have a great military rebuilt. We have so much ammunition. We don’t know what to do with it. Okay. And that’s a nice feeling to have.
<01:01:41>
But they also gave us empty cupboards. The cupboard was bare. You’ve heard the expression, the cupboard was bare. So we took over a stockpile with a cupboard was bare and where the testing system was broken and old and we redid it and frankly it would be okay for a small event but not for a big event and they had a chance to do it.
<01:02:00>
Somebody said that a certain person, I won’t tell you, but a certain person said this will happen and that’s true. The problem is that person never did anything about it. Previous administrations, in previous… they never did anything about it. We all know all about pandemics and all of the things that we’re seeing now, but nobody thought it was going to happen. And if we did think it was going to happen, the problem is nobody did anything about it. We did.
<01:02:26>
We have rebuilt the system and now we’re a fine tuned machine. We built thousands of hotel beds for New York. We moved a ship in that now we’re going to make for COVID-19. We’re going to make it so that people having this horrible thing happen to them will be able to use the ship. The ship, as I said, is going to be shared with New Jersey, New York and New Jersey.
<01:02:48>
We’ve done things that are incredible. When you build, what was it, 18 hospitals. We built 18 hospitals. We built medical centers all over the country and when you have Gavin Newsom and other governors who really have been very nice and generous in their statements because they make the statements to the press, not just to my face. Others tell us how great we’re doing. Like the call that Mike had today. I heard from other people that were on the call. He said it was incredible. It was two hours and everything was positive. They were so happy with what we’ve done and we’re ready to do more if they need it because we’re ready to march.
<01:03:23>
The admiral can tell you we are sitting there with 9,000 ventilators and we’re ready to march. When we see that we can move very quickly. As soon as we see that need, we can move very quickly. We’re ready to march. We built a great system. The problem is the Democrats, like a guy like Chuck Schumer’s a total lightweight, by the way, I’ve known him for a long time. He’ll say, “Why don’t you put a military man in charge?” Military man, I have all military man. This man is doing an incredible job. We have two admirals, numerous generals. We have the Army Corps of Engineers, we have FEMA.
<01:04:02>
We have this whole force like nobody’s ever seen before. We have a great military operation, and they’ve done an incredible job. And honestly people should respect because nobody’s ever seen anything like what we’ve done. And what they end up with… Thinking about me, don’t worry about me. I will only get bad. If I say, “How many ventilators do you need, governor?” “1,000 would be great.” I said, “No, I’m going to send you 10,000.” And then you’ll call up from the media. You’ll say, “How did Trump do?” “We’re not happy. He didn’t send us enough ventilators.”
<01:04:36>
Because that’s called politics, but if you look at what’s happening, and I’m even surprised. The governors are saying all good things, but the Democrat governors and a couple of RINOs, frankly they’re RINOs, that’s all they are. One RINO in particular. But the governors are saying great things. He had a call that lasted two hours today. I heard about that called not just from Mike. It was a perfect call. Now I’m sure you were on the call even though you’re not supposed to be. I’m sure you were on the call, meaning some of the media was on the call because they’re constantly reporting the call. If they’re honest, they will say it was a great call. Okay. Okay, next question, please. Here we go.
<01:05:32>
We’re never going to do anything that hurts Texas.
<01:05:35>
We’re only helping Texas. By the way, the governor is doing a great job over there with this situation, and Texas is so big. You have some parts of the state that are affected. Other parts that aren’t affected at all. It’s an incredible place.
<01:05:54>
We’re going to use whatever we need and we’re doing it totally in conjunction with the governor. We’re doing it in conjunction with your Texas governor who’s done a fantastic job.
<01:06:16>
Very few people are coming through our border and you’ll be happy to know, we’re up to mile 161 of the wall.
<01:06:24>
Oh, I see, okay. But on the border between Mexico, we have 161 miles of wall.
<01:06:39>
First, you want us to call eight governors and tell them to do something, and then you’re complaining that another governor is so strict that he actually checks the borders. I understand why he’s doing that because he knows who he has and he doesn’t want people coming in if they should maybe not be to the liking of the doctors. <crosstalk 01:07:01> No, I think, look, he’s done a great job. He’s done a great job with this case as have many other governors. But he’s done a great job. One of the things I thought you were going to say is we’ve been very tough on our southern border as you know. Very, very tough and part of that’s because of the fact that we have so much… when you talk about 160 miles of new wall, nobody’s coming through that. Nobody, not even close. And we’re building it rapidly. We will have early next year we’ll have close to 500 miles of wall, which is what our goal was.
<01:07:45>
I don’t know necessarily, but I certainly want to listen, and what I want to do is two things. A real infrastructure, not a green new deal. The carbon footprint. I’m not looking for the carbon footprint. We want to put people to work. And frankly, for so many years, we’ve let our infrastructure go.
<01:08:03>
Frankly, for so many years, we’ve let our infrastructure go to hell because we were wasting all our money in the Middle East and other places. Okay? I want to rebuild our country. I don’t want to rebuild that. We’re tired. We’ve rebuilt, if you call it that, or destroyed, frankly, what we’ve done is so crazy. What we have done, the direction that this country has taken is so sad, but we’re in the Middle East for $8 trillion, and if you want to fix a pothole in a highway, you can’t do it because they don’t want to give you the funds. So, we want to have an infrastructure bill, a real one like in the vicinity of $2 trillion to completely rebuild our roads, our bridges, our highways, our tunnels, everything. I’m totally open to listening to that. I’m also open to listening to, and even putting forward, because we are going to be putting something forward, more money for our citizens because they’ve gone through a trauma.
<01:08:56>
This has been trauma. This came out of nowhere. I say it and I’ll say it again, we had the greatest economy in the history of the world. We had the most people working in the history of our country, almost 160 million people, far more than ever before, and then one day our professionals correctly came to us and they said, “Sorry sir, we have to close down our country.” And I said, “Say it again, say it again.” “We have to close down our country,” and the entire world closed down because of this hidden enemy. Now we are going to take good care of our people. It was not their fault.
<01:09:41>
Yes, please.
<01:11:44>
You did not get there.
<01:11:46>
Good, I’m very happy about that.
<01:11:54>
Your grandson’s okay?
<01:11:57>
That’s a lot of temperature, would have thought.
<01:12:53>
Thank you, Deborah. And it is making a big difference. I saw where Governor Cuomo was a little bit upset today over the weekend, a lot of people outside and they were pretty big groups of people. I saw that. I noticed that and he wasn’t happy with that, and I could understand that. Look, we have a period, a short period of time, hopefully it’s a short period of time to go, and let’s get it done. Let’s get it done. Kristin, did you have a question?
<01:13:16>
You’re so quiet today.
<01:13:19>
It’s because you have your own show.
<01:13:37>
Well, I was opposed to the way of money distribution through, as you know, unemployment, and through the state offices, because they have very old, not all of them, but many of them have 40 year old equipment as I’ve said, and it makes it very difficult. But that’s what they want to do. That’s the way it’s mandated to do. I thought it would be better if we did a direct payment system, but the Democrats really wanted it, and I think they had some help from a couple of people that I would have, had I spoken to them, I would have convinced them otherwise, I really believe. But it’s getting out and the federal government has done its job. All we could do is give this massive amount of money to the states. The states then are responsible to distribute it a little bit like we’re talking about here, but the money will be right on time from the federal government.
<01:14:25>
Then the states have to do their job in getting it out.
<01:14:30>
We could very well do a second round of direct. I would do it direct.
<01:14:35>
It is absolutely under serious consideration.
<01:14:50>
But we have people that are so talented. I know the people he suggested. They’re wonderful people. They worked here. They’re wonderful people. He’s just doing that because it’s politics because you know what-
<01:15:01>
We have many depending on what. In terms of testing, this gentleman right here. You know who the point person is? This gentleman right here. He’s the one in charge of the task force. But Mike, you may want to tell him about the… Because this is really a military operation.
<01:18:30>
Thank you. And Kristen, when Schumer makes a statement like that, he’s only doing it for politics. He knows. We have the best generals, the best admirals, we have the best people. These are incredible leaders. These are vibrant people. They’ve done such a good job. And again, you’ll get a tape of the conversation, because I’m sure some of the governors probably had their favorite reporter listening to the conversation, even though they weren’t supposed to, but that’s happened before. Just so you understand, we had a call today that was a beautiful call, everybody friendly, everybody happy. They also know in some cases we’ll get them a little bit more, and if they need it, we’ll get them a lot more depending on where this monster is going. But when Schumer does that, <crosstalk 01:19:16> take a look at the past… Well, you’re going to have to tell me who. <crosstalk 01:19:19>
<01:19:21>
Well, yeah, some Democrats, because they view this as a campaign issue. They want to make Trump look as bad as they can because they want to try and win an election that they shouldn’t be allowed to win based on the fact that we have done a great job. We built the greatest economy in the world. I’ll do it a second time. We got artificially stopped by a virus that nobody ever thought possible, and we’ve handled it, and we’ve built a team and we’ve built an apparatus that’s been unbelievable. Take a look at the Swine Flu, right? That’s H1N1. Take a look at that, and it’s not the other way around, by the way, it’s H1N1. Take a look. You know what I mean by that. Take a look at the Swine Flu. It was a disaster. 17,000 people died. The other administration, they didn’t even know.
<01:20:07>
It was like they didn’t even know it was here, and that was peanuts compared to what we have in terms of the power and the magnitude of what we’re going through. This is attacking 182 countries simultaneously. So Schumer’s just all about politics. I’ve known him almost all of my adult life, and he’s a disgrace. In many ways he’s a disgrace, and he knows it’s done. He just wants to do that. But he knows the job we’re doing. Everybody’s amazed at the job we’re doing, and the public is starting to find out. One of the reasons I do these news conferences, because if I didn’t, they would believe fake news, and we can’t let them believe fake news. They see us up here. They see us with admirals. They see us with this talent. They see the job that Mike Pence has done, which has been an unbelievable job, an unbelievable job. I put him there. I thought he’d do well. He did great as the Governor of Indiana, and I thought Mike would do well. He’s done much better than well, and he gets along with people I think much better than I do, because I like people being 100. Mike can put up with things that sometimes I say it’s amazing that he can put up with it, but he’s done an incredible job, and so has the entire team. This is a military operation, and again, we built 2,900 beds in Javits Center. We built medical centers in New York. In Chicago, we built a thousand beds much more now in McCormick Place. That’s their big convention home, the equivalent of Javits, conventional home, big McCormick Place, fantastic place. By the way, the mayor of Chicago, at least on the phone, is extremely happy with what we’re doing, thanking us, has a great relationship with Mike, thanking us, and I just wish the politicians would say to you what they say to us, really, and it’s a good question. Do you have one? Yeah, please.
<01:22:25>
You said Latin America?
<01:22:32>
It’s a good question. We’ve moved a tremendous number of boats and ships to the area of, different areas of exactly where you’re talking about, because we’re tired of drugs pouring into our country from other places, and we’re tired of seeing drugs pouring into different parts of Latin America, South America, and just coming into our country. Now we’ve got them stopped at the border and they’re trying to do it by sea. So we stop them at the border with, and frankly with the help of Mexico. Mexico right now has 27,000 soldiers on our southern border. They never had any soldiers. They’re doing that because I’ve asked them to do it. That’s the only reason they’re doing it. They have 27,000 soldiers. So now they’re trying to bring it in by boat and by ship, the drug Lords and the people doing drugs, and trying to destroy our country from inside with drugs, and we’re hitting them very, very hard, and that’s why we’re doing it.
<01:23:30>
Say it.
<01:23:34>
Well, there are the activities of human trafficking, and especially with respect to women, and as you know, proportionally, it’s mostly women, and it’s a horrible thing. <crosstalk 01:23:46> It’s a horrible thing and there’s never been a time like it, and it’s because of the internet, and this is all over the world. But for the most part they’re coming through, in this country. they’re coming through the southern border, but we’re hitting them very hard. They have tremendous illegal trafficking in women and children also, but mostly in women. And it’s illegal, and it’s horrible, and it’s disgraceful, and I’ve seen things that are an absolute disgrace, and we’re trying to knock them out and we’re knocking them hard. And again, I want to thank the President of Mexico because he has really stepped up to the plate, 27,000 soldiers. They’ve never had any soldiers at our border, and I did that because the Democrats will not approve anything to stop because they want to have open borders.
<01:24:31>
They want to have all these people flowing through our border and in many cases they’re sick. They have problems that you don’t want to know about, or they’re criminals in many cases, not in all cases, but in many cases. They want to have open borders. They want to have sanctuary cities, so they protect criminals, and I don’t want to have it, and Joe Biden does want to have that also, as you know, because he said that during numerous debates. I want to have strong borders and I don’t like protecting criminals with sanctuary cities, but we’re doing it for drugs, we’re doing it for human trafficking, we’re doing it because you have to do it. We either have borders or we don’t have a country. <crosstalk 01:25:11> All right. Go ahead, please.
<01:25:29>
I have an answer but I’d rather have the Admiral answer that.
<01:28:41>
Which nobody else can do, by the way. No other country can do.
<01:28:44>
I’ll just give you one example. It would be very important to know if the virus is still circulating here, whether for example a healthcare worker, or a longterm care nursing home worker is immune from the virus and can’t carry it. Very, very important to protect our elderly in that situation. But also if you haven’t been exposed to make sure that you really take precautions, and maybe take care of the people who don’t have the virus and you don’t have the virus. So it’s complex, but it’s not complicated on how you go about looking this in different segments of society. And I don’t want to take too much more time with the podium, but antibody tests are a different thing. They’re coming. We’re highly confident that this can be scaled very rapidly and provide us a bit of information we just don’t have now.
<01:29:30>
<inaudible 00:21:31>, be a bad week.
<01:29:36>
Yeah, I’m going to look into it. And I also think our Navy Secretary is a highly respected man. So sometimes that happens with people and I’ll take a look at it.
<01:29:50>
When he sends a letter out and he sends copies all over the place and it’s not a classified letter, and it was very disconcerting to the families of the people on the, very disconcerting, so number one, they get worried and scared. It was weak. We don’t want weak, but I’m going to take a look because I think he looks to me like he’s an outstanding guy. I looked at his whole, just a little while ago, I looked at his file, and people have bad days and we’ll take a look at it.
<01:30:27>
Well, we’ll take a look. I want to look. I want to speak also to the Secretary. I also want to speak to the Secretary of Defense, who is Mark Esper, who’s doing a fantastic job, and maybe I can help the situation out. I mean, you guys are saying why is the President getting involved and going, well, I like to solve problems. It’s a problem. I don’t want to see men hurt, women hurt, I don’t want to see people hurt unnecessarily. Maybe we can solve it easily where it’s not life changing. But he did, he did a bad thing. Sending a letter out and many, many copies, as you know. I don’t know. I heard 28 copies. I heard a lot. That’s a lot of copies. Plus, the letter was five pages long. I haven’t read the letter, but I think it was five pages long, single spaced. That’s a lot of writing. He’s the captain of a ship. He’s a very important person of a very expensive ship, a nuclear powered ship. He shouldn’t be writing letters like that, but it happens. Sometimes I’ll write a letter that I say, ” I wish I didn’t send it.” Not too often, but it happens. <crosstalk 01:31:34> Go ahead. Yes.
<01:31:52>
Well, I don’t want to comment on what he said. I understand.
<01:31:55>
It’s tough language, but let’s not get into that. It’s tough language. Now there are some people that think, “Oh wow. He says it like it is.” Look, he made a mistake. He should not have sent that letter, or he should’ve gone through his chain of command, which is the typical way of doing it. He’s in the military. He’s a very important person in the military. He knows it better than anybody in this room, what he should’ve done, and I’m sure he feels he made a mistake, but I’m going to look into it, and I’m going to see, maybe we can do something because I’m not looking to destroy a person’s life who’s had an otherwise stellar career as I understand it. I looked at this file just now because I’ve been seeing what’s going on. If we can save a person’s career…
<01:32:42>
I don’t mind going after a person that they did something wrong, but this was a mistake. He made a mistake. I’m not justifying what he did. He made a mistake. Shouldn’t be sending letters. He’s the captain. He’s a very important person in the military. You don’t send letters and then it leaks into a newspaper, of all newspapers, that was a beauty, right? So you just don’t do that. So it was a mistake, but I may get involved. I’ll call Secretary of Defense and find out a little bit about it, and if I can help two people, two good people, I’m going to help them.
<01:33:18>
Say it.
<01:33:22>
With the captain?
<01:33:26>
I said, when you asked me, and when the question was asked the last time, I said, “He shouldn’t have sent the letter.: I haven’t changed. He should not have sent a letter. And if there’s a letter, it should go classified and it should go to his superior, and he shouldn’t be jumping off the superior. <crosstalk 01:33:39> It hasn’t changed in that regard. The only thing that has played right up here with me is that I looked at his record and he’s been an outstanding person. If he wasn’t, I wouldn’t even be talking about this. He’s been an outstanding person. He’s had a very exemplary military career. I mean, he started off as a helicopter pilot. They called him Chopper. His name was Chopper. He was a great helicopter pilot. It’s a tremendous skill. I know a lot about helicopters. And then he went F-16s or F-18s and he was a tremendous pilot.
<01:34:15>
And then he’s very smart. He studied nuclear energy and he was fantastic, and very few people have the aptitude, they have the mentality to do that. Nuclear energy is very complex. It’s very hard. Very few people can do it. And he did it well, and then it became the captain of a nuclear ship, right, replacement cost, if you look at replacement cost, $18 billion are replacement costs, right? So he’s got, on a replacement cost basis, an $18 billion ship. You know the President Gerald Ford, very expensive, that’s the nearest thing I can think of, but they’re spending money on that one like nobody’s ever seen. So he made a mistake. He made a mistake, and maybe we’re going to make that mistake, not destroy his life. Okay, a couple of more. <crosstalk 01:35:08> Go ahead.
<01:35:25>
Very much in my mind.
<01:35:28>
There doesn’t have to be a phase four. I think it could be a separate phase when it’s all over. Right now, I don’t think they want to think of it. These people don’t want to think about. These people are incredible. They’re not thinking about how much am I getting paid? These people are incredible. I’ve seen it. I see their spirit. I hear about it all the time from Mike, from the Admiral, I hear about it all the time. These people are incredible. When it’s all over, I do want to seriously think, maybe in the form of bonuses. These people are, what they’ve done is incredible. I just admire the attitude and I’ve said it. They walk into those hospitals and they are seriously, you know, one of the things that came up with the Comfort, the ship, is that when we fulfill the request of Governor Cuomo and Governor Murphy, and they’re going to be splitting up, but a lot of things happen to ships when you do that.
<01:36:22>
They didn’t want to do this. In fact, they specifically didn’t want to do this, have patients that were affected with this horrible disease, or whatever the plague, because frankly it’s a plague. That’s exactly what it is. You’d read about it in the old days, the plague, and that’s exactly what it is. But we’re doing it. But when I see the bravery of these people walking through doors without their stuff, they’re not standing outside, “Hey, let’s get ready.” They’re running through doors putting on the stuff. It’s not even on. I think it’s incredible. I’m telling you, the nearest thing I can think of is soldiers in battle, and soldiers going right into battle, because that’s what they’re doing. It’s really, in many ways, it’s the same thing. All right. How about one more?
<01:37:22>
I hope it’s rescheduled. I hope football is able to start. I hope baseball can get to play a little bit. I hope basketball can maybe do their playoffs. I mean, hey, I have no interests or anything other than I want what’s good for the country.
<01:37:38>
A lot of people are tired of looking at games that are five years old. I looked the other day, I saw somebody, I said, “Wow, he looks great.” I forgot. I said, “Oh, that was nine years ago.” I said, “He’s really in great shape.” Well, not in great shape now, but he was in great shape then. It was nine years ago. You get tired of looking at nine year old baseball games and playoff games that took place 12 years ago. I don’t have much time to do that, frankly, but that’s what people are doing, and they want to see sports. Sports are a great thing for this country and I hope football can start, and I told them, I think you might be able to. They may very well be able to. I hope they can start and I hope they can start with people in the stands.
<01:38:14>
You know, we’re not going to be separated. You have seats. Those seats are meant for people to sit next to each other, and when this virus is gone, people are going to be sitting next to each other, and just for the restaurant industry so they understand, when the virus is gone, people are going to be sitting next to each other. One man said, “I have a 200 seat restaurant. It’s been great. But if I go by these rules, those 200 seats goes down to 60.” I said, “No, no. You have a 200 seat restaurant. That’s what you have.” But we have to wait until the virus goes away. It wouldn’t even do well at 60. Frankly, there’s a warmth to it also. There’s a warmth. But not when we have the virus in the air.
<01:38:54>
Well ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I’m going to let our Vice President take over. He’s got some really interesting numbers, statistics, and I want to thank the Admiral. I want to thank Tony and Deborah and everybody else. I want to thank everybody that’s working, and I really do, I see a lot of tremendous things happen. The therapeutics, the call I had today was one of the most exciting calls I’ve had in a long time. And again, I want to wish my best to the UK and the family of Boris Johnson, and we just hope he’s going to be okay because he’s a fine guy. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
