<00:00>
You know you need both. You can’t just have one or the other.
<00:13>
No, it’s really you have a great governor. Really great governor in Iowa. Thank you very much. Thank you, Kim. John, go ahead.
<00:41>
Plenty of supply. Go ahead.
<01:42>
What’s your timing, Sonny?
<01:46>
Fully back up?
<03:07>
Kim, I think we had a great talk with the owners of the plants, the top people, big people. These are big companies, actually. You wouldn’t believe how many plants they have, and I think it was a very strong talk, and I think they got the message. So within a week and a half, we should be in great shape, maybe sooner.
<03:42>
I will ask the Justice Department to look into it, okay? I will ask them to take a very serious look into it, because it shouldn’t be happened that way, and we want to protect our farmers, but they’re looking into that very strongly.
<03:57>
I said I’ve asked the Justice Department to look into.
<04:01>
For whatever. Why is there this disparity? What’s going on? Are they dealing with each other? What’s going on, okay? Because it shouldn’t be that way. Supply and demand should not allow that to happen by normal supply and demand, okay? Thank you, John. Any other questions?
<04:17>
Say it again.
<05:21>
Kim?
<06:29>
And they feel much better, don’t that?
<06:48>
Will they be moving the plexiglass partitions in the factory?
<07:13>
Same as it has been. He’s been doing a very good job. We’re very happy with Dr. Fauci, and he’ll be doing the same, and Deborah will be doing the same. I know you’ll be staying. You’ll be staying. We’d miss you otherwise. She’s done a fantastic job, Both, same thing. We’re actually just adding some names. We may take off a couple that, frankly, their expertise really no longer applies, but I think, Mike, you’ll announce your name’s Monday maybe or sooner?
<07:41>
Good names and now we have a very distinguished person. Really knows her business.
<07:50>
I’ll have to call Nelson Peltz. I’m going to call Nelson Peltz. They’re going to be okay. They’ll be all right.
<07:58>
Basically, you’re saying in a week and a half, you think everything’s going to be good or sooner. Would you make sure, please?
<08:08>
You’re going to have to push them.
<08:12>
Okay?
<08:21>
A lot of respected people.
<08:24>
Well, I’d rather not say because some of them aren’t going to be able to make it. People want to be on the task … They want to be on everything. I’ve never seen anything like this. Anything having to do with this, they want to help every. The biggest people, they want to be on. They want to be on the committees. They want to be on the financial committee or the sports committee. I’ve heard. That’s all I do. I get calls from people. The biggest people, they all want to be on. Enemies of mine, people that don’t like me want to be on the committees. I say, “That’s strange,” but they all want to do and they all want to help, so we’re going to be announcing some very good names. Now, in this case, we want professional names that can help us, not just names where we put it on for the status of the task force. We don’t need status, we need results.
<09:31>
No different. No different.
<09:34>
No, and I don’t think there’ll be a big difference. If you ask me that question in two months, I don’t think there’ll be a big difference. I think we know, and I think you probably know too. Okay, any other questions?
<10:01>
I don’t want to talk about that now. We’re in the midst of some very big things, so I just don’t want to talk about that now.
<10:11>
I will be able to report on that the end of next week. They’re buying a lot of farm product, but are they buying to the level that they were supposed to? They’re going to buy $50 billion worth. The most they ever did was $15 or $16, and now they’re going to $50, anywhere between $40 and $50 in terms of farm, but $250 billion overall. That never happened. No president has ever even talked about anything like that. It’s about time, but I’ll be able to report in about a week or two as to not only with the farmers, but with many other industries also, okay?
<10:53>
Okay, good. I’d like to have that. I’ll report them as they come in, but we’re watching closely, and they understand. They have a deal. Hopefully they’re going to keep the deal. We’ll see. They may, they may not. We’re going to find out. We’ll know soon.
<11:09>
Well, we have thousands of ventilators right now under development and already in storage, as you know. We’re Stockpiling. We have over 10,000. We’ve sent them to states. The states are all … You have plenty of ventilators, right?
<11:26>
Did you ever think that was possible?
<11:28>
They never wrote a story about it, Kim. That’s a tough one.
<11:33>
That’s not like a swab. That’s not like a swab that’s a piece of cotton. This is a big deal doing a ventilator, so countries know that we have a tremendous amount, tremendous volume, and they’ve been calling. Nigeria just called. We’re giving them 250 ventilators.
<11:54>
We have many countries, I’d say 12, 14 countries that called. We’re sending quite a few to France. We’re sending quite a few to Spain and Italy, and we have other countries. We have four African countries, countries located in Africa, who are really in bad shape, frankly. Very bad shape, and we’re sending them quite a few, so we’re in a position where we can now help other people because basically, what are you talking about? You’re talking about people dying. It’s not a question of countries. You’re talking about a lot of people are dying, and we make a great ventilator, as you people found out. Your people actually told me there are good ventilators and not so good. We go top of the line. We’re making all top of the line, so we’re sending them to a lot of countries as we need them, and they call.
<12:49>
So we’re working on that, and in a certain way, I like them to be donations. I really do. I think it’s goodwill. It’s hard to say, “You have to pay us in order to save people from dying.” I’m the first one to say you’ve got to pay, but this is something that’s a little bit different. I think it’s something they really appreciate more than normally, like you’re doing some trade for some linen or whatever it is. A ventilator will save lives, and some of these countries have none. Larry Kudlow knows. You know the kind of calls we’ve been getting. They’re like desperation calls, because you can’t make them. It takes you months and months to get them sent.
<13:30>
We did it in weeks. The people did an incredible job. I was very proud of them. There’s not bring something like this like since World War II, especially that, because it’s a big piece of equipment, very expensive and very complex. It’s a very highly complex piece. The air has to flow at a certain level, everything. It’s a very, very complex piece of equipment, so it’s a good question. But we have many countries calling, and we’re helping as many as we can.
<14:13>
I view the invisible enemy as a war. I don’t like how it got here, because it could have been stopped, but no, I view the invisible enemy like a war. Hey, it’s killed more people than Pearl Harbor, and it’s killed more people than the World Trade Center. World Trade Center was close to 3,000. Well, we’re going to beat that by many times, unfortunately, so yeah, we view it as a war. This is a mobilization against the war. In many ways, it’s a tougher enemy. We do very well against the visible enemies. It’s the invisible enemy. This is an invisible enemy, but we’re doing a good job.
<15:08>
So I just heard that. I can only say this; these were young, brilliant people that were brought in because they have great expertise of this, people that love the country, people that I don’t think were paid anything. In fact, some of them were very rich people where they were able to sell their company. Some people would say, nerds, okay? This is what they do. I think they helped us a lot on ventilators. I wasn’t involved in that, but I think they helped us a lot.
<15:36>
To them, they can look at a ventilator, and it’s a very simple machine. Somebody else looks at it, they have no clue. I think they did an incredible job. Now, I don’t know anything about any of the details of it, but it was a well-oiled machine. They were able to get things that nobody else was able to get. They got good pricing. Pricing by the way, was not the most important element, but pricing is pricing. But we were able to get gowns and gloves and masks and all these things at a very early point. Now we’re making a lot of it. You saw it yesterday where we’re making masks at Honeywell, but I will say, Deborah, you saw it too, the level of ramp up that we did so quickly, so I would say they did. I wasn’t involved in the details, but I can tell you it started flowing with the planes pouring in all from all over the place.
<16:35>
Well, I don’t even know that, because I have no idea who bought. I wasn’t involved in that. We have a lot of support in our campaign. A lot of people are supporting our campaign. They want to see us win very badly, so I don’t know. Do they have companies? Do they not have companies? I can tell you I don’t believe these kids would have any knowledge of any of these companies. Like, I had seen this Dr. Bright. I never met Dr. Bright. I don’t know who he is. I didn’t hear good things about him. I did not hear good things about him at all, and to me he seems like a disgruntled employee that’s trying to help the democrats win an election by getting out.
<17:14>
I mean, he’s got a pre-taped sermon about what he thinks and I can tell you they didn’t think he did a very particularly good job, as I understand it. Now, I just got this this morning because I’m saying, “Who is this guy?” But I never met him. I know nothing about him, but he’s a disgruntled guy, and I don’t think disgruntled people should be working for a certain administration. I mean, he certainly seemed to have a very well-packaged deal, and he’s got the same lawyers that some other well known people had, and he comes up with the whistleblower. I always thought whistleblower was sort of a secret thing. Well, everyone knows who he is, so why is it a whistleblower?
<17:58>
Well, protection from what? Protection from what? but everybody knows who he is because he was very public about it, and if you look at his lawyers, his lawyers are the same lawyers that other people have used, so I don’t know much about it, but to me he seems like a disgruntled employee.
<18:19>
Which figures?
<18:27>
Well, I think it is what it is. You saying it’s 70,000. It’s approximately now 70,000, so do I believe them? Yeah.
<18:35>
I don’t believe them from China, and I don’t believe I’m from other countries where I see a very tiny number of people died, but you’re watching the news and you see what’s going on. But our numbers are essentially certified numbers. They’re individual hospitals. They’re putting out the numbers. I don’t imagine there’d be a very big variation. No, it’s a big number, but it’s also a number that’s at the lower scale. I think, Deborah, you could say it’s at the very lower scale of any number that was predicted, because if you look at the predictions, I guess they said from 100,000 to 220,000. That’s if we did the big shut-ins and if we went to the total shutdown, and now it’s time to open up our country. We’ve got to open up our country. Okay. Thank you very much, everybody.
