<00:00>
Appreciate you being here. Yesterday I announced that we would be extending our social distance guidelines through the end of April. This is based on modeling that show us the peak in fatalities will not arrive for another two weeks. The same modeling also shows that by very vigorously following these guidelines, we could save more than 1 million American lives. Think of that, 1 million American lives. Our future is in our own hands and the choices and sacrifices we make will determine the fate of this virus and really the fate of our victory. We will have a great victory. We have no other choice. Every one of us has a role to play in winning this war. Every citizen, family, and business can make the difference in stopping the virus. This is our shared patriotic duty. Challenging times are ahead for the next 30 days and this is a very vital 30 days. We’re sort of putting it all on the line, this 30 days so important because we have to get back.
<01:10>
But the more we dedicate ourselves today, the more quickly we will emerge on the other side of the crisis. And that’s the time we’re waiting for. The more we commit ourselves now, the sooner we can win the fight and return to our lives and they will be great lives. Maybe better than ever. Today we reached a historic milestone in our war against the coronavirus. Over 1 million Americans have now been tested, more than any other country by far, not even close and tested accurately. And I think what I’d like to do is ask Secretary Azar, who’s done a fantastic job to come up and just say a few words about the fact that we reached substantially now, more than 1 million tests. Please. Thank you Alex.
<04:38>
Thank you very much. Thank you. I’d like to ask Dr. Hahn come up FTA because we have some really good stuff. First of all, the numbers have been incredible on testing, but in the days ahead we’re going to go even faster and we have something from Abbott Labs which is right here and that’s a five minute test, highly accurate. I maybe can show that as we listen to our FDA commissioner, the job he’s done in the approval process. We talked about the chloroquine and the hydroxychloroquine just now. I thought that I’d mentioned it but Alex has already done that, but we have that now under test with 1,100 people in New York and it was only the fast approval by FDA that allowed us to do that. It was a really rapid approval. And Dr., please say a few words. This is the first one on the line of the five minute test from Abbott.
<07:41>
Great job. Really great job. Thank you, Steve. So the pharmaceutical company <inaudible 00:00:07:52>, has been working with us very closely. And as Alex mentioned, a little bit, 30 million doses of the hydroxychloroquine to the United States government. It’s been given. And Bayer has donated 1 million doses of the chloroquine, which will soon be distributed to states and state health officials around the country. Teva Pharmaceuticals is also donating 6 million doses of hydroxychloroquine to US hospitals. 6 million doses. So the private sector as you’d say, Steve, it’s been amazing what’s happened. Really amazing. And we’re going to introduce you to some of the greatest business executives in the world today, no matter where you go. And they’re going to say a little bit about what they’re doing. And then we have so many more.
<08:47>
The FDA has also authorized the materials, N95 respirator mask sterilization kits. It’s an incredible thing. I’ve been asking why are we throwing these masks away? You look at some of these masks and they’re significant pieces of equipment that I say, how come you throw them away? Why aren’t they using sterilization techniques? And I got a call from Mike DeWine, the governor of Ohio. And he’s a tremendous guy, tremendous governor. And he said, we have a company named <inaudible 00:09:24> and they’re having a hard time getting approval from the FDA. And I called up Dr. Hahn and within a very short period of time, they got the approval. Steve, we really appreciate it. I want to thank Mike and I want to thank Steve. And they’re going to be able, each machine now, can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. Now think of that. Each machine can disinfect 120,000 masks per day. It’ll be just like a new one. It could go up to about 20 times for each mask.
<09:58>
Each mask can go through this process 20 times. They have two in Ohio, one in New York, and one will soon be shipped to Seattle, Washington, and also to Washington D.C. So that’s going to make a tremendous difference on the masks. This morning I spoke to our nation’s governors to help each state get the medical supplies they need. Yesterday, Vice President Mike Pence asked our nation’s hospitals to begin reporting total bed capacity, ICU bed capacity, ventilator capacity, and vital medical supply levels on a daily basis. And Mike, thank you for the great job. Thank you very much.
<10:40>
In New York, the 2,900 bed hospital under construction, which is now completed. They completed it in three days. You might say three and a half days, at the Javits Center, will be completed today. When you look … So they’re going up, I think we’re going to be adding some more beds which will be completed today. We’ve opened up … Whoops, there goes our box and my hair’s blowing around and it’s mine. The one thing you can’t get away with if it’s not yours you got a problem if you’re President. A nearly 3000 medical beds will become operational. The US Navy ship Comfort also arrived today equipped with 12 operating rooms and 1000 hospital beds. Work has begun on additional temporary hospital sites including a 600 bed capacity nursing home facility in Brooklyn and numerous floors of a high rise building on Wall Street. It’s been really a pretty amazing what they’ve done, the Army Corps of Engineers, what they’ve done.
<11:46>
They just completed, think of it, a 2,900 bed hospital in New York in just about three days, maybe four days. And the whole city’s talking about it. On top of that, we floated in a great ship, which is going to be a thousand rooms, which is being used for patients outside of what we’re focused on and that will free up a lot of rooms for what we’re focused on. So it’s been great. The Army Corps of Engineers is awarded contracts for the construction of alternate care facilities also. At the State University at Stony Brook, State University Old Westbury and the Westchester Community Center, we’re sending 60 ambulances to New York City today. We have a total of 60 we’re getting some additional ones with up to 190 more to follow at different locations.
<12:46>
To date, FEMA has obligated more than $1.3 billion dollars in federal support to the state of New York. We’re spending a lot of money in New York. It’s a hotbed, there’s no question about it. And we’re spending a lot of time, effort on New York, New Jersey. Spoke with governor Cuomo a lot, spoke with governor Murphy a lot in New Jersey, and we’re really getting the job done. People are very impressed and I’m very impressed by the people in FEMA, the people in the Army Corps of Engineers, because what they’ve done, I’ve never seen anybody doing anything like it.
<13:26>
In addition to the 8,100 ventilators that we’ve already delivered, over the next 48 hours, we’re delivering more than 1000. 400 ventilators are going to Michigan very shortly. 300 going to New Jersey, 150 ventilators to Illinois, 150 to Louisiana and 50 to Connecticut. FEMA and HHS already delivered 11.6 million N95 respirators, 26 million surgical masks, 5.3 million face shields, 4.4 million surgical gowns and 22 million gloves. And I don’t know if you just saw, it just came over the wires that Ford just announced, just a little while ago, that they will produce along with General Electric Healthcare, 50,000 ventilators, and they’re going to be doing it in less than 100 days.
<14:24>
And top of that, we have other companies that are doing ventilators, including General Motors, but we have a nine other companies doing ventilators. As we outpace what we need, we’re going to be sending them to Italy, we’re going to be sending them to France. We’re going to be sending them to Spain, where they have tremendous problems and other countries as we can. But the fact that we’re doing so many so quickly is a tribute to our great companies. More than 14,000 National Guard members have been activated and can help supplement state and local…
<15:03>
… Have been activated and can help supplement state and local efforts to distribute personal protective equipment where we’re sending a lot. We have plane loads coming in. We have 51 loads from various locations all around the world and they’re landing. We had our first big cargo plane land this morning and we’re getting it from all over the world and we’re also sending things that we don’t need to other parts. I just spoke to the Prime Minister of Italy and we have additional capacity. We have additional product that we don’t need. We’re going to be sending approximately a hundred million dollars worth of things, of surgical and medical and hospital things to Italy and Giuseppe was very, very happy. I will tell you that they haven’t a very hard time.
<15:55>
Joining us this afternoon are CEOs of the great American companies that are fulfilling their patriotic duty by producing or donating medical equipment to help meet our most urgent needs. What they’re doing is incredible and these are great companies. Darius Adamczyk of Honeywell, you know that, and Darius has been somebody that I’ve dealt with in the past and he’s a great leader of a great company.
<16:23>
Debra Waller of Jockey International. A friend of mine, Mike Lindell of MyPillow. Boy, do you sell those pillows? That’s unbelievable what you do. David Taylor of Procter and Gamble and Greg Hayes of United Technologies Corporation and I just want to tell all of you that America’s very grateful to you and what you’ve done. Amazing job you’ve done and we thank you very much.
<16:49>
I’d like you to come up and say a couple of words if you might about your companies. Mike, come on up. Come on up fellas. Please come on up. You have to say what you’re doing because it’s been really incredible. Go ahead, Mike.
<19:19>
Thank you, Mike. Please come on up. I did not know he was going to do that but he’s a friend of mine and I do appreciate it. Thank you, Mike, very much. Please.
<21:15>
Fantastic. Thank you. Normally I’d shake his hand but we’re not supposed to do that anymore. So that’s okay. Great job. Thank you to Honeywell. Please, go ahead.
<23:14>
Thank you very much.
<24:49>
Thank you.
<26:40>
Thank you very much. Thank you. Fantastic. Great company.
<26:43>
Those a great companies. Thank you very much. I’d like to ask Seema to come up and say a few words about what you’re doing and what’s happening and how positive it’s been. I really appreciate it. Come on up, Seema Verma.
<31:40>
Thank you very much. You were fantastic <inaudible 00:31:42>, and you’re doing a great job. So we are in the midst of something that is very difficult but we are going to win. It’s just a question of when. We want to do it as quickly as possible. We want to have as few deaths as possible and we will meet again tomorrow for some statistics and some updates as to where we are, where we think we’re going, and timing. I think timing is going to be very important because we have to get our country back. We have to get our country back to where it was and maybe beyond where it was because we’ve learned so much, but we will have lost a lot of people and in many ways they hear us.
<32:26>
And if you look at what’s happening with our medical professionals, it’s a danger there. They’re warriors. Men and women are doing a job the likes of which I don’t think anyone’s ever seen. I see them coming out of planes today going into New York, going into the most dangerous locations, dangerous areas. And they go in there and they just want to do the job. And you see the numbers, you see the numbers, I see the numbers. I have some friends that are unbelievably sick. We thought they were going in for a mild stay and in one case, he’s unconscious in a coma. And you say, how did that happen?
<33:08>
So I just want to thank all of the great professionals, men and women, doctors and nurses and paramedics and fast responders and law enforcement. By the way, if you look at New York and you see the effect that this had on law enforcement, it’s been incredible. These are great people, firefighters, great people. They’re helping in so many different ways. So thank you very much. And if you’d like, we’ll take a few questions. John, please.
<34:08>
They’ll be staying, and we may add a few more, but the guidelines will be very much as they are, maybe even toughened up a little bit, but they’re having a big impact. They are having a tremendous impact and we’re starting to see it. And that’s the key, we’re starting to see the impact that they’re having.
<34:44>
Well, I think that some are ramping up to a level that they’re not going to have to, John, and I think that we also have kept in reserve. We have almost 10,000 ventilators in our line. We’ve held back just because we did the stockpile, we didn’t want to give them because we don’t know where the emergency… it hits so fast. It comes so quickly, and we have 10,000. We’re probably going to send some of them now. We’ve been sending a lot to Michigan and various other states. We’ll probably send some additional ones to Michigan. New York’s been doing very well, but we can add some more to New York. We’re adding them to the areas that are having a problem.
<35:23>
Even Alabama, all of a sudden a flared up a little bit as you saw over the last couple of days and we’ll send them down to Alabama. So we have 10,000, we kept them for this very specific purpose. It sounds like a lot, but it’s not when you think about it, but we’re making a lot and when you see, we’re talking about hundreds of thousands being made in a very short period of time because if you look at what just… so we have now 10 companies at least making the ventilators. And we say go ahead because honestly, other countries really, they’ll never be able to do it. It’s a complex piece of equipment and it’s big and expensive.
<36:05>
Yes. I do think so. I think we’re going to be in very good shape, and we had a great call today with the governors and they were, I actually said, “I hope that the media is listening to this call,” because it was a really good call and that was randomly selected largely Democrats and Republicans in there. I think for the most part they were saying thank you for doing a great job and we discussed that at the end of the call. So really, people are very happy with what we’re doing. Now the circumstances are so terrible because of what’s going on, but I think they’re very impressed by the Federal government.
<36:45>
I watched that beautiful ship floating in today into, weeks ahead of schedule, almost four weeks ahead of schedule into New York Harbor, Comfort. And I watched the Mercy floating in to Los Angeles a week ago, almost a week ago. And they are stocked. They are really ready to go. They’re stocked with both talent and tremendous amounts of equipment and the Navy and everybody else involved, they got it ready so fast. It’s just incredible what they can do. They’ve geared up. That’s why I mean, I am so impressed by the people involved. Mike and I were talking about it before, the level of genius to put it all together so quickly. A month ago nobody ever heard of this. Nobody had any idea that Mercy was being maintained.
<37:33>
It was in maintenance for a month. And when they heard we needed it, and I was surprised, they said, “Sir, we’re ready to go.” I said, “What do you mean? You’re not going to be ready for three weeks?” “No sir, we’re all ready to go.” It was incredible. And we’ve had many instances like this. I think the building of the hospital, 2,900 beds in a matter of days, a few days is just incredible. Governor Cuomo was impressed and Gavin Newsome was impressed by what we’ve been doing with Gavin in California in Los Angeles area in particular, but really San Francisco, all over, all over California. When you look at what we’re doing with Michigan, we’re getting along very well with Michigan’s, great place. We’re sending a lot of things to Michigan because that’s becoming a hotbed, especially a specific area as you know, it’s become very hot.
<38:24>
It’s become, I don’t know, could even at some point supersede, but it’s got to be taken care of. So the relationship we have with the governors, I just wish you could… because we took a lot of calls from a lot of different states and I wish you could have heard, even a thing where the governor of Ohio calls where he has a company that does the sterilization, but they have a problem because it’s not going quickly at the FDA. And I call up Steve and Steve comes and he said, “We’ll get it done.” And they checked it and they got it done almost immediately. And originally they were approving it for 10,000 masks and then it was supposed to be for 80 and they ultimately approved it for 120,000. I mean, it’s a tremendous number.
<39:10>
And I kept wondering, why aren’t they sterilizing these masks? I assumed maybe you couldn’t do it, but then I’d look at them and they’d look like it’s not cloth. It’s something that looks like it could be sterilized and that’s what they’ve done and that’s the machine that is over there actually. They have a piece of the machine over there. I won’t bother showing it to you. And this is incredible when you talk about five minutes, 15 minutes and highly accurate and not nearly as disturbing to do as the other tests. So we’ve just gotten better. We’re doing things that nobody else ever thought of. Please.
<40:03>
Well, we’re letting the governors do in their states pretty much what they want with our supervision and they consult with us in all cases. Some go further than others as you know. I mean, I could give you plenty of examples, but I’m not going to do that because we never want to be controversial, but some of the governors have taken it a step further-
<40:26>
… and people are questioning that, but look, staying at home with respect to what we’re talking about doesn’t bother me at all. People should be staying at home. That’s what we want. <inaudible 00:40:35> please. <inaudible 00:40:37>.
<41:12>
Well, I think what we’re doing is we’re trying to, as a group, governors and that’s Republicans and Democrats, we’re just working together to solve this problem. What you’re mentioning has been going on for a long time and it’s a sad event, a lot of sad events in this country, but what we’re doing is now we’re working on the virus, we’re working on that hidden enemy and I think we’re doing a great job on, as good a job as you can possibly do. When when Tony and Deborah came up with numbers yesterday to say that if we did nothing, you could lose 2.2, up to 2., maybe beyond, I don’t know, maybe beyond, but 2.2 million people if we did nothing. And I can’t tell you what the unfortunate final toll is going to be, but it’s going to be a very small fraction of that.
<42:01>
So we’re doing an awfully good job I think with what we’re doing. Please go ahead.
<42:06>
Please.
<42:21>
Well, we’ve talked about it. Obviously there are some parts of the country that are in far deeper trouble than others. There are other parts that frankly are not in trouble at all. So hopefully, we’re going to be able to keep it that way by doing what we’re doing. So we talked about quarantine as you know, the other day a group came to me and they wanted to do the quarantine and I said, “Let’s think about it.” And we did it, we studied it. And by the time the evening came, it just was something that was very unwieldy, very tough to enforce and something we didn’t want to do. But we did advisory. And I think that’s doing well. I mean, I look at the streets, you look at New York where there’s… I looked down Fifth Avenue today, they were showing a shot of Fifth Avenue in Primetime and there was almost nobody on Fifth Avenue.
<43:09>
I’ve never seen that before. There was no car, there was no anything. So I think the people of this country have done an incredible job. If we do that, we will let you know. But it’s pretty unlikely I would think at this time.
<43:23>
Yes.
<43:46>
Please come.
<44:55>
Thank you very much. Thanks. It is amazing. You look at Louisiana and for a long time it was just staying at-
<45:03>
For a long time, it was just staying at nothing. And then all of a sudden, I look one day and I see a lot and a lot and a lot, and then it explodes. And now, we’re working very carefully and very powerfully with them. We’re building hospitals, we’re building a lot of different things for Louisiana. So, it’s very important. Yeah, please go ahead.
<45:44>
Yeah. We’re prepared, I hope it doesn’t happen. Doctor, would you like to say something about that? I hope it doesn’t happen, but we’re certainly prepared.
<47:02>
Okay. Please, go ahead.
<47:12>
Yeah, very interesting, I saw it.
<47:23>
Well, we haven’t discussed it to that extent, but it’s certainly something we could discuss. We’re getting certainly the number of masks that you need. We are in the process of talking about things… I saw his suggestion on that, so we’ll take a look at it. For a period of time, not forever. I mean, we want our country back. We’re not going to be wearing masks forever, but it could be for a short period of time after we get back into gear. People could… I could see something like that happening for a period of time. But I would hope it would be a very limited period of time, doctors. They’ll come back and say, for the rest of our lives we have to wear masks.
<48:14>
Well, the GPS, that’s the very severe idea. I’ve been hearing about it, GPS. So, what happens? A siren goes off if you get too close to somebody. That’s pretty severe. But he’s somebody who was with me for a long time. He worked… They did a great job at FDA. So, we’re going to take a look. I just received it a little while ago, he sent it over. So very good. Go ahead. Let’s give it a shot.
<48:44>
Here we go.
<49:08>
<crosstalk 00:00:49:06>, it will go away. And I do want them to stay calm. And we are doing a great job. If you look at those individual statements, they’re all true. Stay calm, it will go away. You know it is going away and it will go away, and we’re going to have a great victory. And it’s people like you and CNN that say things like that, that… It’s why people just don’t want to listen to CNN anymore. You could ask a normal question. The statements I made are, I want to keep the country calm, I don’t want panic in the country. I could cause panic much better than even you. I could do much… I would make you look like a minor league player. But you know what? I don’t want to do that. I want to have our country be calm and strong and fight and win. And it will go away.
<49:50>
And it is incredible the job that all of these people are doing, putting them all together, the job that they’re doing. I am very proud of the job they’re doing, that Mike Pence is doing, that the task force has done, that Honeywell and Procter & Gamble and Mike and all of these people have done. I’m very proud. It’s almost a miracle. And it is, the way it’s all come together. And instead of asking a nasty, snarky question like that, you should ask a real question. And other than that, I’m going to go to somebody else. Please, go ahead. Please.
<50:33>
Well, I expressed what was told to me by a tremendous power in the business. He said that at a New York hospital, for a long period of time, he was giving 10,000, maybe maximum 20,000 masks, over a short time. And all of a sudden, he’s giving 300,000. And I said, “No matter how bad this is, could that be possible?” He said, “No.” So there’s only a couple of that could happen. Is it going out the back door? And I’ve reported it to the city, and let the city take a look at it. But when you go from 10,000 masks to 300,000 masks, Mike, over the same period of time, there’s something going on. Now, I’m not making any charges, but when everyone’s looking for masks… And by the way, that’s another thing, we’re making a lot of masks and the sterilization process is going to save a lot of time and a lot of masks.
<51:26>
But, when you have the biggest distributor of product that distributes to many of the big hospitals and hospital chains, and he brings up a statistic like that… And I know you’re trying to make a big deal out of it, but you shouldn’t be. You should actually go over to the hospital and find out why. You shouldn’t be asking me. I’m just saying, that’s the way it is.
<51:47>
You should go over there as a great reporter. I have no idea who you are, but that’s okay. You should go over there. Go to the hospital and find out, how come you used to get 10,000 masks and you had a full hospital? New York City always full. And how come now you have 300,000 masks? Despite the virus and all, you have three… How do you go from 10 to 300,000? And this is very serious stuff. I mean, I could see from 10 to 20 or from 10 to 40 or 50 or something, but how do you go from 10 to 300,000 masks? So what I think you should do as a… I’m sure you’re a wonderful investigative reporter, you should go to the hospital and find out why.
<52:28>
Steve, please.
<52:34>
Well, it’s so bad for the economy. But the economy is number two on my list. First, I want to save a lot of lives. We’re going to get the economy back. I think the economy is going to come back very fast. Steve is just asking about the economy, what’s it like? We basically shut down our country. And we did that in order to keep people separated, keep people apart. They’re not working in offices, they’re not in airplanes together. We’ve really shut it down. And 150/151 other countries are pretty much shut down. But here with the… We have the greatest economy in the world. We have the greatest economy in the history of our country. And I had to go from doing a great job for three years, to shutting it down. But you know what? We’re going to build it up and we’re going to build it up rapidly. And I think in the end, we’ll be stronger for it. We learned a lot.
<53:26>
And I have to say, we’ve had great relationships with a lot of countries. China sent us some stuff which was terrific. Russia sent us a very large plane load of things, medical equipment, which was very nice. Other countries sent us things that I was very surprised at. Very happily surprised. We learned a lot. We’re learning a lot. And we’re also learning, that the concept of borders is very important, Steve. It’s very important. Having borders is very important. But, we have done an incredible job. The economy is going to come back. My focus is saving lives. That’s the only focus I could have. We’re going to bring the economy back and we’ll bring it back fast. Yeah, please.
<54:14>
Go ahead.
<54:14>
Please.
<54:39>
Yeah. Well, it’s very much on par. Look-
<54:43>
Per capita. We have areas of country that’s very wide. I know South Korea better than anybody, it’s a very tight… You know how many people are in Seoul? You know how big the city of Seoul is?
<54:53>
38 million people. That’s bigger than anything we have. 38 million people all tightly wound together. We have vast farmlands. We have vast areas where they don’t have much of a problem. In some cases, they have no problem whatsoever. We have done more tests. Well, I didn’t talk about per capita. We have done more tests by far than any country in the world, by far. Our testing is also better than any country in the world. And when you looking at that, as simple as that looks, that’s something that’s a game changer. And every country wants that, every country. So, rather than asking a question like that, you should congratulate the people that have done this testing. Because, we inherited this administration, inherited a broken system, a system that was obsolete, a system that didn’t work. It was okay for a tiny small group of people. But, once you got beyond that, it didn’t work. We have built an incredible system to the fact, where we have now done more tests than any other country in the world. And now the technology is really booming.
<55:56>
I just spoke to… Well, I spoke to a lot… I’m not going to even mention. I spoke to a number of different testing companies today. And the job that they’ve done and the job that they’re doing, is incredible. But when Abbott comes out and does this so quickly, it’s really unreal. In fact, one company, I have to say, that stands out in the job, and I think I can say this, I don’t want to insult anybody else, but Roche. Roche, is been incredible in the testing job they’ve done. And they’re ramping it up exponentially, it’s up. And you should be saying, congratulations, instead of asking a really snarky question, because I know exactly what you mean by that.
<56:41>
You should be saying, congratulations to the men and women who have done this job, who have inherited a broken testing system and who have made it great. And if you don’t say it, I’ll say it. I want to congratulate all of the people, you have done a fantastic job. And we will see you all tomorrow, thank you very much. Thank you.
