<01:51>
Thank you very much. I think this is going to be a very important conference and I’ll get to that toward the middle, but I have a few things to report and a want to thank you all for being here and I have to say I think with social distancing that the media has been much nicer. I don’t know what it is. All these empty, these in-between chairs … You probably shouldn’t have anybody sitting behind you either. You should probably go back, but I love it. It’s so much nicer, but I shouldn’t say that because you’ll get me now. Thank you all for being here, and we continue our relentless effort to defeat the Chinese virus. Before I begin, I want to start by announcing that today we are bringing home another American citizen. It was a big thing, very big. Amer Fakhoury is on his way back to the United States after being imprisoned in Lebanon since September of 2019. He’s battling late stage cancer.
<02:58>
Mr. Fakhoury will now be able to receive the much needed care and treatment in the United States. We’ve been working very hard to get him freed, and he’s finally able to have his entire family at his side, so I’m very grateful to the Lebanese government. They worked with us and we are very proud of his family. They stood by him so strongly and they are thrilled. The United States has no higher priority than the safety and wellbeing of our citizens. We’ve gotten a tremendous number of hostages out, as you know. I think we’re 42 and O, and Robert O’Brien, as you know, was our chief negotiator for a large part of it. In fact, did so well that now we have him in a different position. So I want to thank and congratulate Robert and his team and I want to let everyone know that recovering Americans held captive and imprisoned abroad continues to be a top priority for my administration. We have one young gentlemen, Austin Tice, and we’re working very hard with Syria to get him out. We hope the Syrian government will do that, and we are counting on them to do that. We’ve written a letter just recently that he’s been there for a long time and was captured long ago. Austin Tice, his mother’s probably watching, and she’s a great lady and we’re doing the best we can. So Syria, please work with us and we would appreciate you letting him out. If you think about what we’ve done, we’ve gotten rid of the ISIS caliphate in Syria. We’ve done a lot for Syria. We have to see if they’re going to do this. So it would be very much appreciated if they would let Austin Tice out immediately. As you know, my administration is working every day to protect American people and the American economy from the virus. Yesterday I signed into law a critical support for American workers, families and small businesses.
<05:11>
It’s a big thing. We’re providing sick leave and family medical leave to those affected by the virus, and more help is on the way as we speak. Our entire team headed by Secretary Mnuchin is on the Hill. We’re working with Democrats and Republicans and there’s a lot of good will going on. This was something that happened that was … Some people would say an act of God. I don’t view it as an act of God. I would view it as something that just surprised the whole world. And if people would’ve known about it could have been stopped in place. It could have been stopped where it came from, China. If we would have known about it, if they would have known about it, but now the whole world almost is inflicted with this horrible … With this horrible virus, and it’s too bad … It’s too bad because we never had an economy as good as the economy we had just a few weeks ago, but we’ll be back and I actually think we’ll be back stronger than ever before, because we learned a lot during this period of time.
<06:27>
I also just invoked the Defense Production Act to help facilitate distribution of essential supplies if necessary. We’re working with Congress to provide major additional relief to the workers, small businesses, and the hardest hit industries. We want to make sure that everybody is able to continue on so that when we recover all of these companies and these great businesses, both very, very small and very, very large, they’re not going to be broken up and you’d have to put them back together. That would take a long time because we really believe in … I believe in the V curve. I believe it’s going to go … When this is defeated, this hidden scourge is defeated, I think we’re going to go up very rapidly our economy and get back to where it was and beyond. Today, I want to share with you exciting progress that the FDA is making with the private sector as we slash red tape like nobody has ever done it before.
<07:24>
Somebody was on yesterday, on one of the networks and said that there’s never been a president at even close that’s been able to do what I’ve done in slashing all of the red tape and everything to get very important things to the market medical. So we slashed red tape to develop vaccines and therapies as fast as it can possibly be done, long before anybody else was even thinking about doing this. And as you know, earlier this week we began the first clinical trial of a vaccine candidate for the virus, and that was launched in record time. It was just a few weeks, and that would have taken years to do not so long ago. As we race to develop a vaccine, we’re also pursuing antiviral therapies and that’s what really we’re going to be talking to you about today. That’s the purpose of being up here today, and to me that’s even more important.
<08:22>
Vaccine by its nature, you have to have long tests because you have to make sure what goes into somebody’s body is not going to do destruction, do bad things. So you need long tests, and they’re doing great with the vaccines, but it’s still a long process. But the therapies and something we can move on much faster potentially. And the treatments that will be able to reduce the severity or duration of the symptoms and make people better. Essentially we’re looking at things to make people better or at the very earliest stages, they wouldn’t even know they had it. And that’s where I believe it’s going to work even the best. The FDA commissioner, Steven Hahn, who’s with us, he’s fantastic, and he has been working 24 hours a day. He’s been … He’s worked probably as hard or harder than anybody in the group, other than maybe Mike Pence or me.
<09:29>
What the FDA is doing is incredible. They’ve done things in times that were not even thinkable. And I’ve directed the FDA to eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy so this work can proceed rapidly, quickly, and I mean fast. And we have to remove every barrier. There were a lot of barriers that were unnecessary, and they’ve done that to get the rapid deployment of safe, effective treatments, and we think we have some good answers. We’ll find out very, very soon. Clinical trials are already underway for many new therapies and we’re working on scaling these to allow many more Americans to access different drugs that have shown really good promise. We’ve had some really good promise. We will do so in a way that lets us continue to collect good data, to know which medicines are safe, and which medicines are working the best. We have a couple that we’re in really good shape on, and that’s for immediate delivery, immediate. Like as fast as we can get it.
<10:52>
The FDA has also approved compassionate use for a significant number of patients. You know what that means. We’re also reviewing drugs that are approved abroad or drugs approved here for other uses. And one of the things that I’m most proud of that I got was right to try. That’s where somebody who’s ill, somebody who’s very sick, terminally ill, usually. In past administrations, we signed this a year and a half ago, you wouldn’t be able to even think about getting any of the drugs that may be showing great promise now. And they’ve been trying for many decades to get this approved. And it sounds simple, but it’s not because there’s liability involved and lots of other things. And I was able to get it approved, working with Congress, right to try. This is beyond right to try. What we’re talking about today is beyond right to try. Right to try has been, by the way, a tremendous success.
<11:49>
People are living now that had no chance of living where we take treatments that would … Things that would have to go through years of a process. And if somebody was terminally ill and I would say, “Why wouldn’t they be able to try this?” They’d go to Asia, they’d go to Europe, they’d go all over the world to try and find something. Or some people, if they had no money, would go home to die. They’d go home to die. They had no hope. Right to try has been an incredible success, but this is beyond right to try. If treatments known to be safe in Europe, Japan or other nations are effective against a virus, we’ll use that information to protect the health and safety of American people. Nothing will stand in our way as we pursue any Avenue to find what best works against this horrible virus. Now, a drug called chloroquine, and some people would add to it, hydroxy, hydroxychloroquine, so chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine.
<12:56>
Now, this is a common malaria drug. It’s also a drug used for strong arthritis. Somebody who has pretty serious arthritis also uses this in a somewhat different form, but it is known as a malaria drug and it’s been around for a long time and it’s very powerful. But the nice part is it’s been around for a long time, so we know that if it … If things don’t go as planned, it’s not going to kill anybody. When you go with a brand new drug, you don’t know that that’s going to happen. You have to see and you have to go long test. But this has been used in different forms, very powerful drug in different forms and it’s shown very encouraging, very, very encouraging early results, and we’re going to be able to make that drug available almost immediately. And that’s where the FDA has been so great. They’ve gone through the approval process, it’s been approved, and they did it. They took it down from many, many months to immediate.
<14:15>
So we’re going to be able to make that drug available by prescription or states … I spoke with governor Cuomo about it at great length last night and he wants to be right on … He wants to be first on the line. And so I think that’s a tremendous … There’s tremendous promise based on the results and other tests. There’s tremendous promise. And normally the FDA would take a long time to approve something like that and it was approved very, very quickly and it’s now approved by prescription. Individual states will handle it, they can handle it, doctors will handle it. And I think it’s going to be great. Then we’re quickly studying this drug and while we’re continuing to study it, but the studying is going to be also done in … As it’s given out to large groups of people, perhaps in New York and other places.
<15:18>
We’ll study it there. There are promising therapies produced by Gilead, and that’s remdesivir, remdesivir, and that’s a drug used for other purposes that’s been out, and it’s had very good results for other purposes, but it seems to have a very good result having to do with this virus, and that drug also has been approved or very close to approved, in that case, by the FDA, and I can’t tell you how much we appreciate what the FDA, these people are incredible patriots and the job that Stephen Hahn is doing, Dr. Hahn, who’s one of the most respected doctors in the country by the way, where we took him … I said, “You sure you want to do this?” Now we didn’t know that this was going to be in the playlist of what happened here. But he really has stepped up to the plate, wherever you are.
<16:19>
Where is he? You really have. I’d shake his hand, but I’m not supposed to do that. Get in a lot of trouble if I did that, but he’s been fantastic and I thank you doctor. He’s going to speak right after I’m finished. So Regeneron, again, is a company that’s done fantastically well as I understand with Ebola and some other things, great company and they’re looking at some very promising events also. So you have remdesivir and you have a hydroxychloroquine. So those are two that are out now, essentially approved for prescribed use. And I think it’s going to be very exciting. I think it could be a game changer, and maybe not and maybe not, but I think it could be, based on what I see, it could be a game changer. Very powerful. They’re very powerful.
<17:21>
So I want every American to know that we’re doing everything we can and these actions are important next steps. I mean, for the FDA to act the way they acted with this kind of speed is an incredible thing. Normally they’d say, “Well, we can have it by next year or we can have it by in two years from now.” You understand, this is the way. Normally it’s like years and years and years, they had it immediately. Based on the fact that it’s been used for other things. Totally unrelated things. We believe these therapeutics and others under evaluation right now will be able to provide relief to many Americans. We really hope that’s going to be, this could be a tremendous breakthrough, tremendous breakthrough, and we will work toward a much needed vaccine in the future, as I said, and what we’re doing with the FDA is so exciting and so many other fields, so many things are happening.
<18:19>
It’s a very exciting time for medicine, and we appreciate that the American public has pulled together, they’re really staying home and I think there’s tremendous spirit in this country right now. It’s spirit like a lot of people have not seen. People have not seen anything like it for a long time. And that means Democrat, Republican, they’re pulling together. I hope everything’s going good on the hill. Maybe I shouldn’t say this until I check out what’s going on, because you never know. But I think there’s a great spirit where the Democrats, the Republicans and everybody else, they’re getting together, they’re trying to get things done. But most importantly, the American public has been incredible. We took the best economy we’ve ever had and we said, “Stop. You can’t work. You have to stay home.” There’s never been a case like this. Normally you pay a lot of money to get things going.
<19:18>
Here’s a case where we’re paying a lot of money to stop things because we don’t want people to be together so that this virus doesn’t continue onward. So there’s never been anything like this in history. There’s never been it, nobody’s ever seen anything like this. But we’re doing the right thing, we have to get rid of, and our big war, it’s not a financial war, it’s a war … It’s a medical war. We have to win this war. It’s very important. With that, I’d like to just introduce Dr. Steven Hahn and he, again, I’d like to send back with Steven our thanks to all of the people working in the FDA who are fantastic, talented people. We appreciate it very much. Everything you’ve done, especially the speed that you got, these two elements, these two very important drugs passed. Thank you very much.
<28:11>
Thank you, doctor. Thank you very much. Mike, talk about the masks.
<34:35>
Thank you, Mike. Thank you very much. Doctor, please.
<37:06>
Thank you, doctor, very much. Jerome, please.
<38:46>
Thank you, Jerome.
<38:46>
Yeah, please. Go ahead, John.
<39:09>
Well, we don’t want that. In fact, some companies, as you know, did stock buy backs and I was never happy with that. It’s very hard to tell them not to, but I would tell them not to. I would say, I don’t like it for that reason. Some did and it turned out that they could have waited a long time and it would have been much better off if they didn’t.
<39:28>
We can. We can.
<39:31>
I mean, it takes many, many people in this case to tango. But as far as I’m concerned, that conditions like that would be okay with me.
Reporter #1: <39:39>
Mr. President.
<39:39>
John.
<39:48>
Yeah.
<39:50>
No, because we hope we’re not going to need that.
<39:58>
First of all, governors are supposed to be doing a lot of this work and they are doing a lot of this work. The federal government is not supposed to be out there buying vast amounts of items and then shipping. We’re not a shipping clerk. The governors are supposed to be, as with testing, the governors are supposed to be doing it. We’ll help out and we’ll help out wherever we can. And we can buy in volume and in some cases, great volume with the masks as an example, which were really a problem. We have helped out and they’re right now millions of masks being made. But, this is really for the local governments, the governors and people within the state depending on the way they divided it up. And they’ll do that, and they’re doing a very good job of it.
<40:39>
Where you have a problem with ventilators, we’re working very hard trying to find… Nobody in their wildest dreams would have ever thought that we’d need tens of thousands of ventilators. This is something that’s very unique to this, to what happened.
<40:56>
Well, if we were desperately in need of something and we, frankly will know about that very shortly, we want to be ahead of it. We don’t want to do it as it happens, but before it happens. We’re going to know a lot over the next two or three days. We’ll know a lot.
<41:56>
No, I’m not, but we’re trying to find that out. This has been going on for years. Many years they’ve been trying to find Austin Tice. He was in Syria, as you know. His mother is an incredible woman and I’m doing it for him, but I’m doing it for his mother. His mother is an incredible woman who is desperate to find her son. And I’m not confirming a lot, but if he is alive, we would like very much to get him back quickly.
Reporter #3: <42:25>
Okay. And on coronavirus, speaking of shortages of supplies, the CDC has put out guidelines for hospitals that are dealing with a shortage of masks to use them beyond their shelf life, and reuse them instead of getting new ones, and in a worst case scenario, use a bandana instead of a mask. How is that acceptable at all?
<42:45>
Well, I haven’t seen that, but I will let Mike answer that question. Vice President.
<44:15>
How many masks are being made and when will they be ready, or at least we start getting them ready?
<46:19>
Some of that had to do with the liability in the company. They had a big problem with liability and much of it had to do with the liability to the company.
<46:50>
We’re looking at that issue directly with them. And that’s a separate issue, but we’re looking at that issue very directly.
Reporter #5: <46:58>
Will you make sure and commit to <crosstalk 00:46:59> giving them the money that they need.
<46:59>
Well, we’re going to do our best on it, but we’re working with Democrats and Republicans on that. We’re looking at that very specifically.
Reporter #5: <47:07>
Can you bottom line people, when can Americans expect their lives to go back to normal? Will that not happen until there is a vaccine?
<47:13>
Yeah. I hope very soon. We’ll see. This is uncharted territory, as you know. We think we have ideas and does it help to say what the idea are? I would hope very soon. We’ve pulled together as a nation. People are, for the most part, doing what they’re supposed to be doing. The social distancing is very interesting. A whole new term that’s become a hot, it’s become somewhat of a hot term, but people are listening and they’re really doing a great job. This country is an amazing country. I think you’re up to 141 different countries right now, so it’s very uncharted territory.
<47:48>
It could have been stopped. It could have been stopped pretty easily if we had known, if everybody had known about it a number of months before people started reading about it.
Reporter #5: <47:58>
Mr. President, you said, you didn’t-
<47:58>
Excuse me, excuse me. Before we started reading about it, we could have, it could have been stopped in its tracks. Unfortunately, they didn’t decide to make it public, but the whole world is suffering because of it.
Reporter #5: <48:10>
You did say a few days ago though, you did have a sense that this was a pandemic that was coming, so why was the United States not prepared with more testing and surprised?
<48:18>
We were very prepared. The only thing we weren’t prepared for was the media. The media has not treated it fairly. I’ll tell you how prepared I was, I called for a ban from people coming in from China long before anybody thought it was… In fact, it was your network, I believe they called me a racist because I did that. It was many of the people in the room, they call me racist and other words because I did that because I went so early. So when you say we weren’t prepared, had I let these tens of thousands of people come in from China a day, we would have had something right now that would have been, you wouldn’t have even recognized it compared to where we are.
<48:58>
How many people have passed away? How many people have died as of this moment? You could multiply that by a factor of many, many, many. So when you say that I wasn’t prepared, I was the first one to do the ban. Now other countries are following what I did, but the media doesn’t acknowledge that.
Reporter #5: <49:14>
So, what I’m asking <crosstalk 00:49:13>?
<49:14>
They know it’s true. They know it’s true, but they don’t want to write about it. Yeah, go ahead.
<49:19>
Go ahead.
Reporter #6: <49:22>
I wanted to just follow up on John and Caitlin’s question, so it’s not just masks, doctors are saying now that they are desperate for other personal protective gear, gloves, other equipment.
<49:31>
Sure.
Reporter #6: <49:32>
Governors are saying that they don’t have access to respirators and they’re terrified. What is your reticence about <crosstalk 00:49:38> invoking the Defense Protection Act?
<49:38>
Governors are supposed to get it. The States are supposed to get it. But we’re helping the States.
Reporter #6: <49:41>
They say there is nowhere to buy them.
<49:42>
Well.
Reporter #6: <49:42>
There aren’t any in the country.
<49:43>
Look, for years they bought them and now all of a sudden they’re coming to-
Reporter #6: <49:46>
They need more now.
<49:46>
… the federal government. We’re working with the States. We’re working with the governors. We’re working with everybody. The relationships are great. One of the things that happened this morning, I spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival Cruise Lines and he’s going to make ships available. So in addition to the big medical ships that you have coming, if we should need ships with lots of rooms, they’ll be docked at New York and Los Angeles and San Francisco and different places. So I want to thank Micky Arison, and that’s Carnival Cruise Line.
<50:16>
I’ve done it.
Reporter #6: <50:17>
But, you’ve said that you don’t want <crosstalk 00:50:18>.
<50:19>
Yeah. If we find that we need something that we will do that. And you don’t know what we’ve done. You don’t know whether or not we’ve ordered. You don’t know if we’ve invoked it. You don’t know what’s been ordered and what’s not been ordered.
Reporter #6: <50:28>
By your tweet last night-
<50:29>
I can only tell you that as an example, masks, nobody ever heard of the number of masks that’s been ordered and they’re being made now and many are available now. But people, I think in the media probably don’t know that.
<50:44>
Go ahead, behind him.
Reporter #7: <50:47>
Thank you. Could you explain the gap, and for the American people, and what you’re saying here today about there being tens of thousands of tests available about how they’re being a huge amount of masks available and what we’re seeing on the ground, which is really the opposite of that? People are saying that they can’t get tested even when they have symptoms. People are saying that they, doctors are telling us they don’t have access to vital equipment. Can you explain that gap?
<51:10>
I cannot explain a gap. I’m hearing very good things on the ground and we’re dealing with… Look, they had a ramp up. They had an obsolete system and they had a system simultaneously that was not meant for this. It wasn’t meant for this. Nobody knew there’d be a pandemic or an epidemic of this proportion. Nobody has ever seen anything like this before.
<51:27>
I can tell you that what we’re doing is we’re working with local governments, with States, governors, even mayors on getting them to be able to get what they need and the system is starting to work out very well. But we had to break a system, like breaking an egg because the system we had was obsolete and didn’t work and that was a system we inherited. And now, we have something that’s really been very good and certainly going to be great for the future too. Yeah, <inaudible 00:51:52>.
Reporter #8: <51:55>
Mr. President, there seems to be a backlash building among congressional Republicans and then your supporters about a corporate bail out. In particular, Senator Mike Braun said that this could harken back to 2008 where we’re picking winners and losers and he indicated that he and some of his colleagues may not be comfortable with that. What do you say to <crosstalk 00:52:13>?
<52:14>
Well, we don’t want to pick winners and losers. We want everybody to benefit. We want, I think more than anything else, the workers to benefit. And sometimes for the worker to benefit, you have to go through the company because they have thousands of workers. And if the company goes out of business, no fault of their own, those workers aren’t going to be able to receive a check.
<52:31>
Look, our ultimate goal are the people. Our ultimate goal are the great people of this country and we will have things worked out, I think that are going to be very well. It’s a very complex formula, you understand that. It’s very complex, but it’s working out. I think it’s going to be very well. I think we’re going to have pretty uniform support for it. Please.
<52:58>
We’re speaking with the State Department later.
<53:01>
I can’t say right now because I haven’t had the meeting yet.
<53:09>
Oh, please.
Reporter #10: <53:13>
Dr. Hahn, thank you so much. I wanted to ask about remdesivir, if I hope I pronounce that correctly. Can you say, is it currently approved for use on the virus?
<55:10>
Jeff.
<55:19>
I can only tell you on the 14th day and we’ll have to see. We’ll have indications later on.
<55:35>
I think they actually are doing a lot. I mean, I know New York is working very diligently, been very strong. I assume San Francisco is one of the areas and Los Angeles and the state of Washington, obviously. That’s one that has to be up there. They’re all working very hard to quarantine or words just about the equivalent of quarantine.
<56:05>
We are and we’re using the medical term of telemedicine, and it’s been incredibly busy and really what people don’t have to… I mean, some people can’t do it anyway. They can’t get up. They can’t see a doctor. But we’re using this and it’s been tele-health, different names, and I will tell you that it’s been really successful and it’s helped a lot of people out where they don’t have to and they can’t. And even from a safety reason, if they are positive, if they are feeling poorly, they can’t do it, or we don’t want them transmitting anything to anybody else. <crosstalk 00:56:41> All right, John.
<57:11>
Well, it would’ve been much better if we had known about this a number of months earlier. It could have been contained to that one area in China where it started. And certainly the world is paying a big price for what they did and the world is paying a very big price for not letting them come out. Everybody knows that. We all know that. As far as believing what they’re putting out now, I hope it’s true. Who knows? But I hope it’s true. <crosstalk 00:57:38>
<57:55>
Big difference.
<58:04>
I don’t want to comment on that right now. Yeah, please.
<58:26>
Worst case scenario you would have terrible job numbers. If we can get this thing wrapped up and finished earlier things will go very nicely. One of the things they’re working, as you know, one of the elements that is being worked on very much so in the Hill is to keep the jobs going so that when we do get rid of the virus, we’re going to be able to just really, I think, go like a rocket. I think the economy’s going to be fantastic. Now, when he said that he was using that as the ultimate bad outcome. I don’t think anybody believes that’s going to happen. <crosstalk 00:59:02> Go ahead. You.
<59:20>
I know all of them, and I don’t know if they’re sitting like you people are sitting. You’re actually sitting too close. Really we should probably get rid of about another 75, 80% of you. I’ll have just two or three that I like in this room. I think that’s a great way of doing it. We just figured a new way of doing it. But you’re actually much too close. You two, you should leave immediately. But, look, I know all of them. They tested positive. Hopefully they’re all going to get better. And it’s one of those things. It’s Congress. It’s one of those things.
<59:58>
Well, I don’t think they’re going to the Hill. I mean, I know some where they tested positive, they’re in quarantine. I know Lindsey and many others, they didn’t test, but until they got the result, they put themselves in quarantine. A number of people in Congress right now are in quarantine. They don’t know the results. When they get the result, they’ll either stay there and get better… Because people get better. I mean, most people are getting better. Most, by far, the people, you get better. Doesn’t mean it’s not a tough one. It is a tough one, but no. Many people in Congress have felt not perfect or they met somebody that wasn’t perfect. It turned out to be positive and they’ve put themselves in quarantine. I think Congress has behaved unbelievably well in that regard. <crosstalk 01:00:49>
<01:00:54>
We’ll know about that later. We’ll see what happens. So much depends on what’s going on in this room in terms of the medical. If we can stop it in its tracks, the virus, it’s plenty. If we can’t, we’ll have to go back and talk.
<01:01:13>
I do. I really do.
<01:01:15>
I’m not going to say, but I think so. Look, people are coming in for money, in some cases no fault of their own, but in some cases where they did certain things over the course of the years, including buying back stock, they bought back stock and they paid a high price for it as it turned out. But maybe I view that as a little bit differently than somebody that didn’t and somebody that built plants all over the United States, of which there were plenty of them too.
<01:01:46>
We will be helping the airline industry. We will be helping the cruise ship industry. We probably will be helping the hotel industry. We’ll probably be… where jobs are created. You don’t want to lose industries like this. These are incredible industries. You can’t lose them. So we’ll be focused on many industries. And I have to say, I can’t say that struggle enough, we will be helping small businesses. That’s where it’s complicated because there’s a lot of small… That’s the engine of the country. We will be helping small businesses. <crosstalk 01:02:16>
<01:02:38>
No. There could be. We’re looking at a couple of things that I could do. Hopefully won’t need it, but we can do. There’s a lot of executive power. If we don’t have to use it, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. Yeah, please.
<01:02:55>
Thanks for telling us. We appreciate it.
<01:03:00>
Go ahead. What’s the rest of your question? We know that. Everybody in the room knows that.
<01:03:17>
We’ll be able to tell you that very, I think, in the near future. We’ll see where we’re going. You’re going to see numbers. You’ve seen the graphs. You’re going to see numbers and we’ll be able to let you know. I will say that the American public has been incredible for the most part, not in all cases, but for the most part. So you’ll be able to see what’s happening over the next… As we say, we had a 15-day period. You’ll be able to tell a lot in a week or so, not everything, but we’ll be able to see over a period of time. <crosstalk 01:03:46>
<01:05:22>
And I have to say if chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine works or any of the other things that they’re looking at that are not quite as far out, but if they work, your numbers are going to come down very rapidly. So we’ll see what happens, but there’s a real chance that they might work. Go ahead, please, in the back.
<01:06:09>
Well, he’s a friend of mine, number one. And number two, we had dinner the other night and everybody said he was positive and he wasn’t positive. He tested negative, so I was quite happy when I heard that. But I have no message for him other than he’s doing a good job in Brazil. He’s doing a good job in Brazil and he’s very popular.
<01:06:29>
I can’t tell you about that. I don’t know about that. I have not heard that. He’s doing a very good job. Brazil was very troubled before he got there. The people love him and is popular. I think he’s doing a very good job. <crosstalk 01:06:44>
<01:06:52>
In Peru?
<01:06:55>
Where? Where?
<01:07:13>
We know about it. We have groups. We have a group of young people in Peru, and we’re working on taking care of that with the military.
<01:07:23>
Yeah, we’re looking at… No, not evacuation. We’re trying to get them out, and they got caught. They were late with their flights. We gave them a period of time. They didn’t make it, but we’re looking to get them out with military, probably through the military. We have a group of young people, I think young men or young people, could be women also with them, from Alabama, the great state of Alabama. They’re in Peru and we’re working on that right now trying to get them out. It’s a large group. It’s about 300. We’re going to work it out. Jeff?
<01:08:03>
Yeah, we did discuss it. As you know, Prime Minister Abe was on the call, and that’s a big decision for him. We don’t know what his decision is, but we’d live with his decision. It’s a tough situation. They’ve done an incredible job. Japan has done an incredible job when building the venues, getting them built. You’ve seen so many Olympic venues that have been a disaster over the years where they cost five times more than they’re supposed to, they weren’t ready in time. Japan has been just the opposite. They built it beautifully. They built it for what it was supposed to be built for. But then he got hit with the same thing that the rest of the world got hit with unexpectedly. He has told us that he has not made a decision as to what to do.
<01:08:55>
Well, the one thing I will tell you is that from the standpoint, you always get a little bit torn because until we became the leading producer, I was always for the person driving the car and filling up the tank of gas and you’d have gasoline. And the prices, if they were too high, I would always raise hell with OPEC. I was always somebody that likes it. And I never thought I’d see 22 and 24 and $28 a barrel, but that’s what we have. And in one way our consumer is very much helped. It’s like a massive tax increase. That’s bigger than any tax decrease that you could give. We can give all these big tax cuts, but they’re paying so little for gasoline. But on the other hand, it hurts a great industry and a very powerful industry. So I spoke with numerous people that have a lot to do with it, and we have a lot of power over the situation. We’re trying to find some kind of a medium ground. It’s very devastating to Russia because when you look, I mean, their whole economy is based on that. We have the lowest oil prices in decades, so it’s very devastating to Russia. I would say it’s very bad for Saudi Arabia, but they were in a fight. They were in a fight on price. They’re in a fight on output and at the appropriate time I’ll get involved. <crosstalk 01:10:21>
<01:10:25>
Well, Mickey called up and he said if you need them and we haven’t said yes, I’ll call Governor Cuomo. I’ll call Gavin, Gavin Newsom, governor from California I’ll call. A few of the other governors are going to bring it up today because we’re meeting through phone, through telephone, telephonically as they say, in a little while at FEMA. I’m going over to FEMA from here.
<01:10:48>
Well, you can increase places to stay. Let’s say places to stay, if it works. I mean, I don’t know, maybe people won’t want them. But he made the offer. It was a very generous offer, and he said that he has some ships that would be ideally suited for what we’re doing. And certainly they have a lot of rooms. They’re big and they have a lot of rooms, so we appreciate it from Carnival. <crosstalk 01:11:13> Go ahead.
<01:11:22>
Not needing the tests?
<01:11:27>
Well, no, you should only get… I didn’t have any symptoms and I got a test, but I got a test because you people were driving everybody crazy. So that’s the only reason. I had no symptoms, but I had a test. My doctor told me, “Don’t get it. You don’t need it. Everybody said you don’t need it.” But I had to do it because the press was going crazy. And then after I got it, they said, “You shouldn’t have gotten it. You had no symptoms,” the whole thing. So in other words if you get it, it was no good, but I’m a unique case unfortunately. But no, people that don’t show symptoms and people that have doctors that say they shouldn’t get it, I would rely on that, yeah. I would rely on that. <crosstalk 01:12:05>
<01:12:14>
OAN.
<01:12:16>
Very good. Thank you very much.
<01:12:19>
They treat me very nicely. Go ahead.
<01:12:26>
No, I don’t think it’s racist at all.
<01:12:56>
It amazes me when I read the things that I read. It amazes me when I read the Wall Street Journal, which is always so negative. It amazes me when I read… The New York Times is not even… I barely read it. We don’t distribute it in the White House anymore, and the same thing with the Washington Post because, you see, I know the truth. People out there in the world, they really don’t know the truth. They don’t know what it is. They use different slogans and different concepts for me almost every week trying to catch something. Last week it was, okay… As you see me, there’s no chaos. I have no chaos. I’m the one telling everybody to be calm. There’s no chaos at the White House. We have unbelievable professionals. It’s really, I mean, I think I came up with the term. I hope I came up with the term, but it is fake news. It’s more than fake news. It’s corruptness. They write stories without calling anybody, they write a story. Today, I had a couple of stories where… They never call me, ever, that I know of. At least nobody tells me. They’ll write a story about me without even asking my opinion on something. It’s totally fake.
<01:14:04>
I mean, there is a story in the Wall Street Journal today about how we’ve done. We’ve done a phenomenal job on this. The governors even, even Gavin Newsom, who I’m usually fighting with over the fires and I think you should do a different kind of a job in the forest and lots of things. We argue a lot, but Gavin Newsom has been very, very generous. Andrew Cuomo has been really very generous. I mean, they’re saying we’re doing a great job and everybody is saying. But then you’ll read this phony story in the Wall Street Journal, or the Washington Post is going wild lately. I don’t know what happened to them. I guess something happened like we don’t call them back or whatever. But the Washington Post… These are very dishonest media sources. They’re very dishonest. And you know what? Someday, hopefully in five years, I won’t be here and that’ll be fine. I will have done, I think, a great job. Because I don’t think anyone’s done as much in three and a half years as I’ve done, I don’t think, and the administration. This administration has done a great job. But the press is very dishonest.
<01:15:17>
Well, I think they do. I mean, they are siding with China. They are doing things that they shouldn’t be doing. They’re siding with many others. China’s the least of it. So why they’re doing this, you’ll have to ask them. But if we had an honest media in this country, our country would be an even greater place. <crosstalk 01:15:33>
<01:15:32>
So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We are very excited about, specifically, what we talked about with the chloroquine. I think it could be something really incredible. It could totally depress the times that we had mentioned. <crosstalk 01:15:53> Wait. Excuse me, excuse me. It could totally depress any time that we’re talking about if it works. There are a lot of reasons that I have to believe, again, Dr. Hahn is the expert, but a lot of reasons that I would have to think that it could have a very positive effect or a positive effect, maybe not very, but maybe positive. I think it’s, to me, very, very exciting. And the beauty is, I think I can say this, Steve, the beauty is that these drugs have been out there so the really danger part of the drugs, especially chloroquine, it’s been out there for years so we know it’s something that can be taken safely. So it’s very important. <crosstalk 01:16:33>
Reporter #5: <01:16:32>
Can I ask the doctor a question about that?
<01:16:41>
Go ahead. Go ahead.
Reporter #5: <01:16:41>
Dr. Hahn, can you just give a little bit more information about that, the process by which folks are going to be able to actually use these medicines? Because I believe there were at least two, maybe more. How quickly do you think we will be able to use them? And then if you can update us on the vaccine. I know it was fast-tracked.
<01:17:52>
And they are. <crosstalk 01:17:53> We’re going to have other times to meet. We’ll be meeting, hopefully not for very long. I mean, I would like to see this get cleared up, and we think we’ve… To me, this was a very important conference because I really think there’s great potential here. A lot of people are going to be trying it soon, literally very soon, literally in a matter of days, if not sooner in some cases. It’s already being experimented with and there’s been some very good results. We’ll see what happens, but if we can be even partially right, maybe we’ll be fully right, but even partially right on it, this whole subject becomes a much more pleasant subject. So thank you all. We’re going over to FEMA now, so I don’t know who’s going. But we’re going to FEMA. We’re going to be discussing with the governors and lots of other people. Now I think that’s enough. Thank you. <crosstalk 01:18:46> Thank you, everybody. <crosstalk 01:18:50>
