<01:32:47>
Well, I’ll just say that the team and Senator Hoeven was here, Senator Kramer was here, the whole codel, the first lady was here. She says, hi. But you hosted them last year because they again, won the national championship this year in January. This is the eighth out of ninth year in a row they’ve done that. They would love to get back here with the rain check.
<01:33:48>
That great LSU quarterback started his career playing flag football in elementary school in Fargo, North Dakota. So that’s where <inaudible 01:33:54>.
<01:41:31>
Well, first I want to just lead with gratitude and say thank you to you for your leadership, and the vice president, and Dr. Bergson. The whole team has been a great partnership federal to state, to local and North Dakota. Secondly, wanted to say thanks to all the great people in North Dakota, because like Jared in Colorado, we relied a lot on individual responsibility, light touch from government and had great results. Here we sit today, we’re number two in the nation. We passed New York this week in terms of testing per capita. So we’ve really driven in. We’ve tested over 6% of the population.
<01:42:08>
Well, this has all been the PCR, the nucleic acid testing. It’s been across a number of different platforms, Thermal Fisher, Avid, Panther. So we’ve got a variety of different platforms, but most of it driven through our state lab, which has had an order of magnitude increase. So we’ve gone to three shifts a day and each shift is doing more than three times they did before. So 10X increase going on there on the testing site.
<01:42:31>
Then we’re the fifth lowest positivity rate in the country. Alaska and Hawaii are ahead of us, but we’ve been right at the bottom in terms of that. You take those two things together-
<01:42:43>
Well, I would say very early on-
<01:42:47>
Well, geography helps and the people of the state helped. Those two things, but I’d say we took early action to try to reduce transmissible moments. So we kept 93% of the jobs in the state open, but the 7% we closed, bars and restaurants and personal care businesses. Everybody else kept going. All the construction, all of energy, all of Ag, including all of elective surgery at hospitals kept that going.
<01:43:13>
We were well-stocked. We had a great medical cash and <crosstalk 01:43:16>
<01:43:16>
We never took more than 2% of our capacity in healthcare. We have a lot of great healthcare providers in North Dakota. Only 2% we’re going to COVID.
<01:43:24>
So we were able to then drive through that. We handled the virus and really focused and we got Michelle Comber here who leads our commerce department. We have less to worry about opening up because we never really closed down. But on that other 7%, we got bars, restaurants, personal care businesses open on May 1st. All that’s going very well under new operating procedures that everybody’s using to stay safe.
<01:43:58>
Well, absolutely because what we do in North Dakota is we power the world and we feed the world. Number two oil producer, producing state in the nation. A lot of the unemployment that we saw early on wasn’t related to the virus. It was related to the demand destruction associated with the oil price drive.
<01:47:15>
While we’re here I want to also say, Secretary Bernhardt, doing a fantastic job because we had a chance to interact with him on national parks. We had great things going on in the Theodore Roosevelt National Park. As we move ahead with the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library, we’ve got the US Fish and Wildlife BLM. We’ve been great partners working with the five tribal nations that are headquartered in North Dakota, with whom we share geography. We’ve done great collaboration with those tribal leaders on testing through COVID. But I just want to thank the secretary.
<01:47:48>
Thank you secretary <inaudible 01:47:49> and for all their support as well through all this.
