(22:23)
How do you address this new challenge? There’s what we do from within and what we do from without. I harken back to the original decision that was made by the president of making sure that we knew the scenario that was going on in China. We prevented travel from China to the United States. If we had not done that, we would have had many, many more cases right here that we would have to be dealing with. So in that spirit, the approach is going to be, as we address this challenge, which is going to evolve by the day and by the week to do what was just mentioned, to try and keep our citizens from going to places that are active infection and to prevent places where there are active infection to necessarily easily get here.
(23:15)
That’s the getting it from without to within. From within, we will very aggressively do the kind of public health measures that would hopefully contain this, but as we say this, we need to prepare for further challenges and we will have them. You will hear about additional cases that will be coming on. You should not be surprised by that, but to realize that that is something that is anticipated when you get communities spread. So when you have cases throughout the world, the way we’re seeing now, South Korea, Italy, Iran, and places like that, the United States cannot be completely immune to that. The challenge is how we deal with it and I can assure you all the resources that are necessary are going to be put into dealing with what we see evolving right now and again, we’d be happy to answer any questions later, but Bob, do you want to say a few words?
(27:21)
Let me clarify it. I have never been muzzled ever and I’ve been doing this since the administration of Ronald Reagan. I’m not being muzzled by this administration. What happened, which was misinterpreted, is that we were set up to go on some shows and when the vice president took over we said let’s regroup and figure out how we’re going to be communicating. So I had to just stand down on a couple of shows and resubmit for clearance and when I resubmitted for clearance I got cleared so I have not been muzzled at all. That was a real misrepresentation of what happened.
(31:54)
Okay, so the N, the number in our country currently is low, but when you look at the pattern, it seems to be following the experiences that others have had. It’s never 100%. if you look at the totality of the cases that have been reported, particularly from China, about 75 to 80% of them would do really quite well. They would just sort of like a bad flu or a cold. You get anywhere from 15 to 20, 20 somewhat percent who are going to go on to require advanced medical care, hospitalization, possibly intensive care.
(32:31)
For the most part, the people who get in trouble and ultimately tragically would die from this are people who are elderly and or have underlying conditions, heart disease, chronic lung disease, diabetes, obesity because of the difficulty in breathing back and forth. However, every once in awhile you’re going to see a one off. You’re going to see a 25 year old person who looks otherwise well, that’s going to get seriously ill, but the vast majority of the people who get into trouble do have these underlying conditions and that’s why it confuses people because they say, well, you just said that, and then there’s a report of a 40 year old physician from China who died. That’s going to happen. That happens with influenza. Most of the time influenza kills people who are advanced age and underlying conditions, but you hear in the media every once in a while a college student would get infected and ultimately die, but the majority is in that risk group.
(33:37)
No, there’s no indication that that’s going on at all. If this virus acts like other viruses, which I have no reason to believe it won’t, once you’ve gotten infected and recovered, you’re not going to get infected with the same virus.
