<01:20:27>
Thank you, Mr. vice president. I just wanted to follow up. One of the most important things we can do is keep our critical workforce working, and I think you heard it said that we have many different critical workforce industries in this country. Obviously, first responders, healthcare workers, but as you heard, it’s also individuals who help maintain our food supply, et cetera. And so, what CDC has done is that we’ve really looked at the essential workforce and how to maintain that workforce, particularly at this time as we begin to-
<01:21:03>
Workforce particularly at this time as we begin to get ready to reopen and have confidence in bringing our workforces back to work and so we’ve put out a new guidance for essential healthcare workers who’ve been exposed to the coronavirus. These are individuals that have been within six feet of a confirmed case or suspected a case and so that they can, under certain circumstances, they can go back to work. If they’re asymptomatic as the vice president said, they could go back to work if they do several things as we say here, take their temperature before they go to work, where a face mask at all times and practice social distancing when they’re at work.
<01:21:46>
What we’d ask them not to do when they’re at work is we want them to stay at home if they’re sick, we want them not to share objects that would be touching their face and we would like them not to congregate in break rooms, lunch rooms and crowded places and then the second slide, if we’re talking to the employers of these critical industries, we would ask those employers to take the employees temperature and assess their symptoms before starting them back to work. If the employee does become sick, we want them to be sent home immediately. We’d like them to increase air exchange in the buildings and increase the frequency of how they clean common surfaces and really began to get these workers back into the critical workforce so that we won’t have a worker shortage in these critical industries. So that’s the new guidelines the CDC will be posting today.
