<48:24>
Thank you, Mr. Vice president, Mr. President. We just want to show you a couple of additional slides but also to remind all of Americans that we still have a significant number of cases, both in the Boston area and across Massachusetts and Chicago, to really that our hearts go out to those cities as they continue to struggle with coronavirus and the consequences at the hospitalization, to all the healthcare providers that are on the front lines.
<48:50>
These are just an illustration of the different types of equipment that are out there. Describing them both as low-speed, but quick turnaround time, to high-speed and taking three to four hours to actually run 100 or more tests. The equipment ranged from all those different … That’s why there’s 5,000 of them as noted by the President in this list.
<49:13>
We wanted every governor and every state and health laboratory director to have a clear understanding of the full capacity within the state, both for the capacity but also where technical assistance and additional supplies may be available. We were proud to put the federal labs on that list because the military and the VA have stepped up every step of the way to provide support, both in testing and care. We have many military members on the front lines and I’m sure the military would offer their facilities to the Governor of Maryland or any governor who wanted to utilize those to expand testing.
<49:51>
The next slide, I’m just going to run through them very quickly. Every governor not only received the Excel spreadsheet with the complete list of the equipment and the zip code of the location and the laboratory to really be able to create a mosaic of laboratories of the high-speed and low-speed equipment together to meet the needs of their clients depending if their drive-through or hospital needs.
<50:17>
This is what Florida looks like, next slide. This is what Louisiana looks like, next slide. Maryland with significant capacity, next slide. Virginia with significant capacity throughout the state, next slide. New York, obviously a lot of capacity in New York City with overlapping capacity. It’s important to know where this is because then hospitals and labs can support each other when they need surge capacity, next slide. This is New Jersey, next slide. Pennsylvania, next slide. Massachusetts, next slide. Ohio, next slide. Oklahoma, next slide. Washington, next slide. I think that’s Wyoming. We wanted to show both in states that have large populations and in States that have lower populations, you can see that in general, the number of machines match their population, and we’re working with the Walter Reed group and the American Society of Microbiologists and all the lab directors to really create a web of understanding of what the capacity is currently, what the capacity can be, and how the federal government can support them in developing their strategies linked to the overarching federal strategy of testing as outlined in our guidelines.
<51:36>
Thank you, Mr. President.
