<24:15>
Thank you very much, Dr. Birx, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. So what Dr. Birx has really said very simply is that there are really two dynamic forces that are opposing each other here. As I’ve mentioned several times in our briefings, the virus if left to its own devices will do that dark curve that Dr. Birx showed you. The other dynamic force is what we are doing, what we’re trying to do, and what we will do in the form of mitigation. Now these are very revealing bits of data because you saw what happened in Italy, where you make the turn around the curve and you go. That doesn’t happen all at once. It’s a stepwise fashion. And if I explained the steps, which I will, you’ll see why we are really convinced that mitigation is going to be doing the trick for us.
<25:12>
Because what you have is you have increase in new cases at a certain rate. When the increase in new cases begin to level off, the secondary effect is less hospitalizations. The next effect is less intensive care. And the next effect is less deaths. The deaths and the intensive care and the hospitalization always lag behind that early indication that there are less new cases per day. The way we saw in Italy, and the way we’re likely seeing, I don’t want to jump the gun on it. We’re seeing little inklings of this right now in New York.
<25:51>
So what we’re going to see, and now we got to brace ourselves. In the next several days to a week or so, we’re going to continue to see things go up. We cannot be discouraged by that because the mitigation is actually working and will work. The slide that Dr. Birx showed, what you saw in New York and New Jersey, and then the cluster of other areas, our goal, which I believe we can accomplish, is to get the hotspot places, the New York’s, the New Jersey, and help them to get around that curve. But as importantly, to prevent those clusters of areas that have not yet gone to that spike, to prevent them from getting that spike.
<26:37>
And the answer to that is mitigation. Now, the 15 days that we had of mitigation clearly have had an effect, although it’s tough to quantitate it because of those two opposing forces. But the reason why we feel so strongly about the necessity of the additional 30 days is that now is the time whenever you’re having an effect, not to take your foot off the accelerator and on the brake, but to just press it down on the accelerator. And that’s what I hope and I know that we can do over the next 30 days. And as I said the other day on one of the interviews, we are a very strong and resilient nation. If you look at our history, we’ve been through some terrible ordeals. This is tough. People are suffering, people are dying. It’s inconvenient from a societal standpoint, from an economic standpoint to go through this. But this is going to be the answer to our problems. So let’s all pull together and make sure as we look forward to the next 30 days, we do it with all the intensity and force that we can.
<36:33>
So our hope is to get that down as far as we possibly can. The modeling that Dr. Birx showed predicts that number that you saw. We don’t accept that number that that’s what’s going to be. We’re going to be doing everything we can to get it even significantly below that. So, I don’t want it to be a mixed message. This is the thing that we need to anticipate, but that doesn’t mean that that’s what we’re going to accept. We want to do much, much better than that.
<38:24>
So, I mean, just getting back to what I said about the stepwise thing, deaths always lag, so you will be seeing deaths at a time when as an epidemic we’re doing really, really well because the deaths will lag.
<38:48>
The answer is yes, as sobering a number as that is, we should be prepared for it. Is it going to be that much? I hope not, and I think the more we push on the mitigation, the less likelihood it would be that number, but as being realistic, we need to prepare ourselves that that is a possibility that’s what we will see.
<39:12>
Right.
<39:19>
You know, it will be difficult. I mean no one is denying the fact that we are going through a very, very difficult time right now. I mean, we’re seeing what’s happening in New York. That is really, really tough, and if you extrapolate that to the nation, that will be really tough. But that’s what it is, Jim, and we’re going to have to be prepared for that.
<40:16>
Getting back to that, that’s really an important slide that Dr. Birx showed. The cluster of other cities that are not New York and not New Jersey, if we can suppress that from any kind of a spike, the numbers could be significantly lower than what we’re talking about.
<40:34>
Right, and that’s the reason my plea at the end of my remarks, Jim, that now was the time to put your foot on the accelerator, because that’s the only thing that’s going to stop those peaks.
<53:00>
No, I mean, Dr. Birx explained it very, very well. I just want to get back, John, to your question. It’s a logical question. When you look at the number, you want to know what the demography is going to be. This is a number that we need to anticipate, but we don’t necessarily have to accept it as being inevitable. And that’s getting back to what I’m saying about we can influence this to a varying degrees, and if we influence it to the maximum, we don’t have to accept that. That’s something we need to anticipate. But I want to do, not I, all of us, want to do much, much better than that.
<53:45>
That was full mitigation.
<55:07>
So, John, it’s an obvious very good question. If this is full mitigation and it’s 100,000, why am I standing here saying I want to make it better? Because that’s what the model tells you it’s going to do. What we do is that every time we get more data, you feed it back in and re-look at the model. Is the model really telling you what’s actually going on? And again, I know my modeling colleagues are going to not be happy with me, but models are as good as the assumptions you put into them, and as we get more data, then you put it in and that might change. So even though it says according to the model, which is a good model that we’re dealing with, this is full mitigation. As we get more data, as the weeks go by, that could be modified.
<01:20:30>
Thank you Mr. President. But just for a second before the vaccine, in answer to your question, Steve. There are a number of candidates. The drugs that are now being looked at in various ways, either compassionate use, clinical trials, are generally drugs that already exist for other things. There’s a whole menu of drugs and interventions that are now going into clinical trials that are not approved for anything yet. I mean, for example, things like immune serum, convalescent plasma or hyper immune globulin or monoclonal antibodies, a variety of other things. Right now there’s a lot of activity going on behind the scenes in the design of the kinds of clinical trials that will give us an answer, because you need an answer, because if it doesn’t work, you want to get it off the table and go to the next one. So there are a lot of things.
<01:21:18>
Vaccine-
<01:21:22>
No, it takes at least months. At least months. At least. I mean, that’s the reason why you’re seeing a lot of activity with drugs that already exist for other purposes, because they’re already there. But the drugs that you want to show in a good randomized clinical trial, at very best, they’re going to take months. Just one word on the vaccine, exactly like we said, we hope that as we get into the summer, if in fact there are cases out there, when you’re in a phase two or phase three trial, or two, 2B, as we call it, that we might get an early efficacy signal. And an efficacy signal means that even though you haven’t definitively proven that a vaccine works, you get enough inflammation that if it were an emergency, you might be able to have an emergency youth authorization for it. <crosstalk 01:22:10>
<01:30:07>
Just to underscore what Dr. Birx was saying, if there was no virus in the background, there was nothing to mitigate. If there was virus there that we didn’t know about, then the answer to your question is probably yes. Now the only trouble with that is that whenever you come out and say something like that, it always becomes almost a sound bite that gets taken out of context, but I think that’s very important, what Dr. Birxs has said, is that if there was covert infections here that we didn’t know about, and we didn’t mitigate them, that they would’ve made a difference. If there was virtually nothing there, then there’s nothing to mitigate. And I don’t know the answer to your question.
<01:30:55>
In a perfect world, it would have been nice to know what was going on there. We didn’t, but I believe Jim, that we, we acted very, very early in that.
<01:31:06>
I’m not-
<01:34:45>
That is an FDA decision, and it really depends on a variety of factors, but I would like to see a clinical trial that has a comparison to something that is comparable to what it means without the drug. I mean, I keep saying it. I say it all the time, and I’ll say it again. It’s a control trial that compares it to something meaningful. When that occurs-
<01:35:08>
Well, there are a number of trials going on, not only in the United States but also in other parts of the world. And right now, it’s too early to make any determination, but I just want to get back to what I say all the time. The definitive way that you get an answer is by doing a randomized controlled clinical trial. <crosstalk 00:27:27>.
<01:52:41>
This could really be terribly misleading, John. What it was was looking at the distance that droplets by speaking, by coughing or sneezing. So if you go way back and go, “Achoo.” And go like that, you might get 27 feet. So when you see somebody do that get out of the way. But that’s not not-
<01:53:05>
That is not practical, John. I’m sorry, but I was disturbed by that report because that’s misleading. That means that all of a sudden the six foot thing doesn’t work. That is a very, very robust vigorous achoo sneeze. That’s what that is. And that’s not what we’re talking about.
<02:10:24>
So when you talk about second wave, I think you really are talking about two different things that are a little bit different. So for example, after the 30 days if we get the mitigation that we hope will get us to the suppression that Dr. Birx was talking about, there’s a danger if we don’t continue to maintain that, that we will have a resurgence right within the current outbreak. That’s sort of a second way, but it really is a exacerbation of the current wave. We hope that doesn’t happen and that’s why we’re really pushing and why I was so emphatic about making sure we abide by those mitigation strategies. The other aspect of a second wave is something that’s just the nature of a virus, that’s, as the president said, highly transmissible and is going to be circulating in other parts of the world as we’re going down, which I think we will, and I feel certain that we will. Then we have to worry about the next season, and as was just mentioned, that’s when you use the experience that you have, the interventions that you’ve developed, and hopefully a vaccine that you’ll be able to deploy as quickly as you possibly can. That’s that second wave that really is more seasonal than an exacerbation of something that you pull back on.
