<49:41>
Oh, thank you Mr. Vice President and thank you all for listening to us talk to the American people. We’ve been watching the testing results, it’s very critical to us. It’s very to be looking at that very carefully. Let me tell you two things that are going on in parallel. Our system to look at flu like illnesses is still up and running and in county after county and state after state. And why is that important for those who’ve been following the flu epidemic this year? You’ll remember we had Flu A, then we had another peak of Flu B.
<50:14>
And those systems that are in every single state and local government is the platform where we can see whether there’s any increase in flu-like illnesses. So if you have very few cases in your state and in your counties, maintain your flu surveillance system that you work closely with the CDC on. And look for changes in your slope of new flu-like illnesses and there are enough test kits and there’s particularly enough of the CDC test kit where we started that runs on your flu surveillance platform to be constantly surveilling what those flu-like illnesses are in our states and counties that have very low number of cases.
<50:56>
We have counties still with zero to one cases, but they can participate in their surveillance that we need to have out there now by using their flu-like surveillance system and we thank all of the states who have that up and running. If you go to cdc.gov and go to flu surveillance, you can see state by state and you can be looking at those curves with us. It’s what we’re looking at day by day in addition to the testing results that are coming in. For the testing results still on, there’s four counties that constitute the majority of both the current cases and new cases. I think you know those are New York City, Westchester, New York Suffolk and Nassau county. Those are the four counties all associated with New York and the New York Metro area. There’s a few counties in New Jersey, but this is still where 56% of the cases are and 56% of the new cases.
<51:53>
It’s very important that people look at the number of new cases per day. Remember we told you it was going to take us a while to work through the testing backlog? I think we are close to working through the testing backlog so that you can interpret the number of cases per day and you will see in New York City that the number of cases per day has been relatively constant over the last three days. Those are the number of new cases per day. This is a real call to every person in New York City, in the New York Metro area, to continue every one of these 15 days to slow the spread and to do that part of that at the same time that they’re following the mayors and governors piece.
<52:35>
Yesterday we talked about people that may have left the Metro area that were residents, residents of the Metro area that may have gone to secondary homes or other places to reside. And we’ve asked all of them to carefully monitor their temperatures and self-isolate from the communities where they went just to ensure their own health and the health of their communities while people move around the country.
<52:59>
Finally, why this is so important? It’s very important to me personally because my grandmother for 88 years lived with the fact that she was the one at age 11 who brought home flu to her mother named Leah, for which I am named. When her mother had just delivered and her mother succumbed to the great 1918 flu. She never forgot that she was the child that was in school that innocently brought that flu home. This is why we keep saying to every American, you have a role to protect each and every person that you interact with. We have a role to protect one another. It’s why we are social distancing and you are social distancing. But to every American out there, when you are protecting yourself, you’re protecting others. And if you inadvertently, I know, brought this virus home to someone with a preexisting condition, I can tell you my grandmother lived with that for 88 years. So this is what we’re trying. This is the message that’s important to everybody. This is not a theoretic. This is a reality. You can see the number of deaths that are occurring. We all have a role in preventing them, so thank you for the work that you do to get our message out to others. To really ensure that every American understands how important their role is as we move through these next five days to not let up for an instant. I hear some reports that someone said, “Oh well, the new cases in New York are increasing,” or “the hospitalizations are increasing.” The number of new cases over the last three days have been consistent but not rising any more than a consistent day over day rise. You will see hospital cases continue to increase because they are a reflection of what happened one to two weeks ago before the full mitigation efforts were put into place. So each person in every place, no matter what county, what community, what state can work with us to ensure that we prevent the spread of this virus to others. So thank you.
<01:02:19>
Thank you. Thank you, sir. So I just want to thank Dr. Mary Peterson and the whole team of the American Association of Anesthesiologists because they immediately, when we asked them, could these be modified, they went to immediate work on it. They’re going to have Q and A’s up for, but more importantly, every anesthesiologist in every city has been working with their state and local health officials to really work with them how to change this. And I think that it’s not only the ventilators that they’ll be supplying, they have the people that run those ventilators that are not any longer doing elective surgery. So changing that elective surgery piece over a week ago has freed up lot of additional resources.
<01:02:59>
When I talk to you about how we are, we’ve done some things that are very horizontal across the country, but we’re collecting data now in a county by county granular way. So it’s like any epidemic. It’s not equal everywhere. There are places that are very spared, and there’s places where there’s more. We have a very vast country with a lot of capacity and a lot of infrastructure, and so looking very specifically about where the virus has been, where is it going, who has got freed up resources from where it has been, because it didn’t hit all, it hit Washington state earlier than it hit New York, and looking at all of those pieces to really ensure how we can innovatively move equipment around based on the need. And so I know that it has become a place where people are looking at numbers rather than what is needed.
<01:03:52>
Because if you do these projections, when you got to those projections that said like in Germany and others, that implied that 60% or 50% of the population would get infected, I want to be very clear. The only way that happens is if this virus remains continuously moving through populations in this cycle, in the fall cycle, and another cycle. So that’s through three cycles with nothing being done. And so we’re dealing with the cycle A right now, not the one that could come in the fall of 2020, or though we’re getting prepared for it by the innovations that are being worked on, and not the 2021, we’re really dealing with the here and now, why we’re planning for the future. And I think the numbers that have been put out there are actually very frightening to people. But I can tell you, if you go back and look at Wuhan and Hubei, and all of these provinces, when they talk about 60,000 people being infected, even if you said, “Oh, right, well there’s asymptomatics,” and all of that, so you get to 600,000 people out of 80 million.
<01:05:05>
That is no where close to the numbers that you see people putting out there. I think it is frightened the American people. I think on a model that you just run full out, you can get to those numbers if you have zero controls and you do nothing, and we know that every American is doing something. And so I think what our job right now is, is to carefully detail on a hospital by hospital, state by state, county by county, to outline what the infrastructure needs are and ensure that we’re meeting them, both from the stockpile and from the generosity and movement of the American people and other hospitals.
<01:11:04>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to add one piece and this is really a call to every state out there and every county that has been doing community based testing. The FDA put out new guidance, we talked about it several days ago, that people can do self-testing in the drive through, where you give them the materials to do it in their car, and you pick it up in a biohazard bag. This would free up all of that PPE that you see being utilized in those drive throughs back to the hospitals and back to the clinics that need it the most. We have to move to the new technology. FDA worked tirelessly to get that out there so that it could be sparing of gowns, and gloves, and full respiratory N95s. This is the moment to move to that self-testing front of nose with the new applicators that can be utilized, so that every single bit of the N95s can be put into the hospitals that need it. <crosstalk 01:12:09>.
