<12:35>
Thank you, Mr. President. I think you know, over the last months we’ve taken very bold action to stop the virus from coming to our shores. And because of that, we gained time to really get together and understand the progress across the globe of what has worked and what hasn’t worked. We now need to appeal to every single American so that they can have their role in stopping the spread of this virus. We’ve talked about things before about washing your hands, but we really want to focus on if you are sick, no matter who you are, please stay home. If someone in your household is diagnosed with this virus, the entire household should quarantine in the house to prevent spread of the virus to others. The reason we’re taking these strong and bold steps is because we know there is virus spread before you develop symptoms, and then we know that there’s a large group, we don’t know the precise percent yet that actually is asymptomatic or has such mild cases that they continue to spread the virus.
<13:45>
If your children are sick, please keep them home. Now, to our older population or those with preexisting medical conditions. Everyone in the household needs to focus on protecting them. Everyone in the household. I want to speak particularly to our largest generation now, our millennials. I am the mom of two wonderful millennial young women who are bright and hardworking and I will tell you what I told to them. They are the core group that will stop this virus. They are the group that communicates successfully, independent of picking up a phone. They intuitively know how to contact each others without being in large social gatherings. We’re asking all of them to hold their gatherings to under 10 people. Not just in bars and restaurants, but in homes.
<14:40>
We really want people to be separated at this time, to be able to address this virus as comprehensively that we cannot see, for we don’t have a vaccine or a therapeutic. The only thing we have right now is the amazing ingenuity and compassion of the American people. We’re appealing to all Americans to take these steps to protect each other and to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread. These guidelines are very specific. They’re very detailed. They will only work if every American takes this together to heart and responds as one nation and one people to stop the spread of this virus. Thank you.
<33:57>
Great. Thank you and thank you for that question. We have been working on models day and night around the globe to really predict. Because some countries are in a very early stage like the United States. We’ve been working with groups in the United Kingdom. We had new information coming out from a model and what had the biggest impact in the model is social distancing, small groups, not going in public in large groups. But the most important thing was if one person in the household became infected, the whole household self-quarantined for 14 days, because that stops 100% of the transmission outside of the household.
<34:40>
As we talked about early on, it’s silent. We had another silent epidemic, HIV. I just want to recognize the HIV epidemic was solved by the community. The HIV advocates and activists who stood up when no one was listening and got everyone’s attention. We’re asking that same sense of community to come together and stand up against this virus. If everybody in America does what we ask for over the next 15 days, we will see a dramatic difference and we won’t have to worry about the ventilators. We won’t have to worry about the ICU beds because we won’t have our elderly and our people at the greatest risk having to be hospitalized.
<45:48>
Well, if I was Dr. Fauci I would tell you there’s a physiologic age and a numerical age. So older people with preexisting conditions. And what do we mean by that? Significant heart disease, significant kidney disease, significant lung disease, any immunosuppression, any recent treatment for cancer. Any of those pieces on any household.
<46:13>
Now why do I think the millennials are the key? Because they’re the ones that are out. And about and they’re the most likely to be in social gatherings. And they’re the most likely to be the least symptomatic. And I think we’ve always heard about the greatest generation. We’re protecting the greatest generation right now and the children are the greatest generation.
<46:32>
And I think the millennials can help us tremendously by having… plus they need to communicate with each other. Public health people like myself don’t always come out with compelling and exciting messages that a 25 to 35 year old may find interesting and something that they’ll take to heart. But millennials can speak to one another about how important it is in this moment to protect all of the people.
<47:01>
Now you could be 40 and have a significant medical condition and be a substantial risk. You could be 30 and having come through Hodgkin’s Disease or Non- Hodgkin’s lymphoma and be of a significant risk. So there are risk groups in every age group, but there’s more millennials now than any other cohort. And they can help us at this moment.
<54:15>
There’s very little data on pregnant women. I think I, about a week ago, I said that reports that came in from China, from the Chinese CDC. Of the nine women who were documented to be pregnant and have coronavirus in their last tri-semester delivered healthy children and they themselves were healthy and recovered. That is our total sample size and we will be getting more data from countries. While countries are in the midst of this crisis like Italy, I try not to bother them frequently to get us their data. We try to get it just weekly from the countries that are in the midst of responding to the epidemic. So that their focus is on their individuals in their country.
<56:55>
Well, I think we have to say the data that has been coming out, and I’m sure you’re all up to date on how long the virus lives on hard surfaces. And that has been our concern over the last two weeks.
<57:15>
Oh, go ahead Tony. He was my mentor so I’m going to have to let him speak.
