<01:10:27>
Thank you Mr vice president. So hopefully you can see from this numbers that we’ve taken a data detailed approach. Really bringing the power of granular data to the supply chain and moving supplies based on really what you would call burden of disease and need. If I could just start out by not just going to the numbers at the beginning, but really talking to the community of health advocates to the community that works on the social determinants of disease and the communities of the historic black colleges and universities. We really need to improve messaging and I’m asking them to help us increase the messaging around this. We don’t want to give the impression that the African American community is more susceptible to the virus. We don’t have any data that suggests that, what our data suggest is they’re more susceptible to more difficult and severe disease and poor outcomes. And we really need to make sure that every household is aware of what it’s going to take to protect the individuals in that household that have preexisting conditions.
<01:11:32>
We could call on the indigenous nations, the tribal leaders to also be working very closely to protect the elders of their communities. We know this is more difficult in multi generational households and it’s really going to call for really unbelievable attention to details of hand-washing and protecting others from each other particularly if you don’t feel well. This is really a call to action to the communities to make sure that we get messages appropriately out there so that everyone understands what it’s going to take for us all to protect one another. And we know it can be done because we can see these changes. I wanted to go through the numbers at a high level so you understand why particularly these supplies went to these areas to begin with. We talk about attack rates or the cases poor per population.
<01:12:23>
So in the New York as a state, they have seven cases per thousand. This is the highest in the country. In New York city itself, it’s closer to most twice that in New York city. New Jersey is four per thousand, Louisiana three per thousand, Massachusetts two per thousand, Connecticut two per thousand, Michigan 1.5 per thousand. The district of Columbia and the Baltimore area now 1.5 per thousand and we’re watching them very closely, Pennsylvania one per thousand but we’re concerned about Philadelphia. What is allowing us to move supplies based on burden of disease and need is the extraordinary West Coast that has had very low numbers from Washington that was less than one per thousand, California that has less than 0.5 per thousand and Oregon that’s even less than that. And it’s those states where there’s large populations because of the enormous work that they’re doing to prevent expansion and spread of the virus. It’s allowing resources to go to these states and these communities and these counties that need more support.
<01:13:35>
And so this kind of data analysis is allowing us to make very intelligent decisions about need, but also really understanding what’s happening across the country in the development of the curves as you have heard about. And so we do see and I know you heard me caution that over the weekend sometimes there is decreased case reporting and so there were increases in a series of communities on Monday. We’re seeing that stabilize again and when you look over three days, you’re starting to see that we may be actually in a series of communities outside of New York and New Jersey and Connecticut creating a much flatter graph, a much flatter curve. So you saw New York and the increase and then you saw we’re hoping as governor Como and the mayor has described that they’re getting to a steady state where the next outcome is going down. But we see across the country in Detroit, in Chicago, some real not this extreme going to seven cases per thousand, but really staying in the more two cases per thousand and a different curve parameter then.
<01:14:48>
And it really shows the amazing, amazing activity of every American in those cities to really ensure that there’s social distancing and really importantly to ensure there is less socialization between households and really ensuring that the household really remains independent, protected and not really at this moment going out into the community or socializing anywhere but a virtual way on computers by Zoom, by FaceTime. And I think we can really see that in the data and its really given us great heart. I want to finish by really talking to my laboratory directors because you’re extraordinary and you’ve done an amazing amount of testing. Those nearly 2 million tests that we’re getting to, those were all done in the last two to three weeks, but we do have excess capacity. So if all the lab directors could look in their laboratories if they have an Abbott M2000 if they could get that up and running, we could double the number of tests that we’re doing per day.
<01:15:55>
That is a high throughput, the machines are throughout the United States, there’s hundreds of them. Right now about 80% of them are idle. We’re going to have a call with the laboratory directors of these laboratories to really ensure this is an automated robotic situation that they can run. There’s over a million test kits sitting ready to be run. We have five platforms of tests. This is one of our really high volume platforms like Roche and we’re really calling on them to really increase that capacity so that we can do not only increased diagnostic testing, which I think we’re doing quite well right now, but also increasing the ability to do more healthcare workers, first responders, community testing and surveillance. And then finally you will see and you’ve heard about it happening in the UK and other places. There’s a series of antibody tests out there that have not been validated.
<01:16:55>
We’re working right now very closely with a series of companies that know how to make these tests that have made these tests for us for decades for HIV, for a rapid test. They’re working on that technology to bring that quality of test, which is in the 90 plus percent sensitivity and specificity to the American people for antibody tests. But until we get those, if you see them on the internet do not buy them until we can give you a test that’s reliable for all Americans. And we are working very hard to have that happen and bring that to the American public. Some of the tests that may be available on the internet may have very low sensitivity and specificity and give you a false reassurance that either give you a false positive or a false negative implying that you may be protected. So please wait until we have those tests available and validated.
<01:17:52>
People are working around the clock to make those available to the American people. We all understand how important that is because you’ve heard us talk about asymptomatic cases and we really want to know how broad that is and how common that is. And so in places like New York city where I described that they had a seven per thousand, sometimes two, three and four times any other place in the United States. Being able to know what the number of people who never had symptoms but do have a positive test would be really critical at this point, particularly as we plan for any reoccurrence in the fall or in future seasons. Thank you.
<01:26:53>
Yeah, I want to be clear. We didn’t ask for their ventilators. Looked at their epidemiologic curves. These states have amazing health commissioners and I think when this is over we’ll really be… All of the models were based on something we have never attempted to do anywhere in the world. We have never attempted to do this kind of mitigation. It was always theoretic to many individuals. And now we see across the globe people mitigating against this virus, realizing that their own behaviors can change the course and future of this virus in their communities, which is really astounding. The power that gives us to actually understand that we can compete against this virus and do well.
<01:27:38>
And so I think their governors and their health commissioners looked at their curves, looked at their hospitals, looked at their ICU and looked at their needs and then decided that they didn’t need those at this time and wanted to make it available for other states that were in more of that two per thousand, three per thousand, four per thousand and seven per thousand.
<01:27:57>
And I think we’ll learn a lot from other states and other communities to really understand how to do this better next time. And I think this is what will teach us because we’ve never attempted anything like this, at least in my lifetime where we’ve had these 30 days to stop the spread. We’ve not ever put out information like that.
<01:28:22>
So I think you heard the CDC director talk earlier today about in the models how different individuals thought communities would mitigate and the rate at which they would mitigate. And I think you can see that across the world we’re learning that when you give communities the information that they need to understand what’s going on and you’re transparent, that communities can be part of the solution in a transparent and amazing way. And I think this kind of education and dialogue is always critical when you want communities. I think when I first started here five weeks ago, I said that we will win based on what the communities are able to do as a community of Americans. And I think we’re all really deeply impressed about what they were able to do. So it was the governors who decided.
<01:29:25>
We’re tracking all of that very closely. I use my time here to appeal to people, specifically the health educators the health advocates, because I know the power with them. But to my lab directors, I really need the Abbot M2000 online because that means we can do an extra hundred thousand tests a day, and there’s enormous power in that.
<01:29:51>
The the ability to self test, the ability… Last time I had my test here I self-tested. So it can be done. It’s straightforward. It works very well with that rapid five minute test. But what we now have to create, and I know that’s always difficult because everybody wants one of something. We now have to create a mosaic that brings together where we know every single machine is in the United States, where our gaps are and then align resources with need and gaps in the testing and ensure that we have the right laboratory test for the right community. So you can see there would be communities, particularly the Indian Health Service or rural communities where that Abbott ID Now kit could be incredibly helpful because otherwise they’re shipping it all the way to a capital maybe three states away. And that’s going to add two or three days to the wait time, which we’re trying to get away from
<01:30:56>
It varies state by state and we’ll be talking with all of the states about really changing how we do testing in the community to really ensure that we’re testing optimally. Because right now we have still focused very much on hospital diagnosis because we know it will make a difference in treatment. So these major laboratories are still putting drive thru tests at the back to all the hospital tests. And so that’s where the backlog is, in the drive true tests. So I know if you’re an outpatient, not an inpatient, but if you’re an outpatient, that is where the delays right now are. But it’s state by state. And so some states have 24 hour, 48 hours for both their outpatients and inpatients. Others have short for inpatient and longer and outpatient. And then we’re trying to reconcile those two pieces.
<01:38:13>
So I think in this country we’ve taken a very liberal approach to mortality and I think the reporting here has been pretty straightforward over the last five to six weeks. Prior to that when there wasn’t testing in January and February, that’s a very different situation and unknown. There are other countries that if you had a preexisting condition and let’s say the virus caused you to go to the ICU and then have a heart or kidney problem, some countries are recording that as a heart issue or a kidney issue and not a COVID-19 death. Right now we’re still recording it and the great thing about having forms that come in and a form that has the ability to mark it as COVID-19 infection, the intent is right now that if someone dies with COVID-19 we are counting that as a COVID-19 death.
<01:39:32>
I think that would apply more to rural areas that may not have the same level of testing. But I am pretty confident in New York City and New Jersey and places that have these large outbreaks and COVID only hospitals. I can tell you they are testing. New York and New Jersey together have by proportion are testing extraordinary well as Washington State and Louisiana. So I don’t see that there’s been a barrier in testing to diagnosis.
