<15:25>
Thank you very much Dr. Birx. So just to connect with what I mentioned to you in previous discussions in this room, and Dr. Birx said it very well. That in order to be able to contain and curtail this epidemic to not reach its maximum capability, we have a two pillar approach. One of which I believe has been very effective in preventing the substantial seating and namely the travel restrictions that we’ve discussed many times in this room. The other equally, if not more important is when you have infection in your own country, which we do, and I can read the numbers, but they’re really essentially what we’ve seen yesterday. Incremental increases both globally as well as in the United States, but the curve doing that. So therefore the kinds of things that we do are containment and mitigation. This what we’re mentioning now, the guidelines when you look at them carefully, I believe if the people in the United States take them seriously because they were based on some rather serious consideration back and forth, some may look at them and say they’re going to be really inconvenient for people.
<16:44>
Some will look and say, well, maybe we’ve gone a little bit too far. They were well thought out, and the thing that I want to reemphasize, and I will say it over and over again, when you’re dealing with an emerging infectious diseases outbreak, you are always behind where you think you are if you think that today reflects where you really are. That’s not word speak. It means if you think you’re here, you’re really here because you’re only getting the results. Therefore it will always seem that the best way to address it would to be doing something that looks like it might be an overreaction. It isn’t an overreaction. It’s a reaction that we feel is commensurate, which is actually going on in reality. So take a look at the guidelines, read them carefully and we hope that the people of the United States will take them very seriously because they will fail if people don’t adhere to them. We have to have, as a whole country, cooperate and to make sure these get done. Thank you.
<32:32>
He’ll be back in a sec. He’ll be back in a second. I think that the question that I think maybe John asked about until July, the guidelines are a 15-day trial guideline to be reconsidering. It isn’t that these guidelines are now going to be in effect until July. What the President was saying is that the trajectory of the outbreak may go till then. Make sure we don’t think that these are solid in stone until July.
<52:08>
Thank you for that question. The vaccine candidate that was given the first injection for the first person took place today. You might recall when we first started, I said it would be two to three months. And if we did that, that would be the fastest we’ve ever gone from obtaining the sequence to being able to do a phase one trial.
<52:27>
This has been now 65 days, which I believe is the record. What it is, it’s a trial of 45 normal individuals between the ages of 18 and 55. The trial is taking place in Seattle. There will be two injections, one at zero day, first one, then 28 days. There will be three separate doses, 25 milligrams, 100 milligrams, 250 milligrams. And the individuals will be followed for one year. Both for safety and whether it induces the kind of response that we predict would be protective. And that’s exactly what I’ve been telling this group over and over again. So it’s happened. The first injection was today.
<53:27>
If you are positive for the infection. If you have coronavirus, it is less how you feel than whether or not you’re still shedding virus. So the general issue about letting people out of a facility who, for example a hospital or whatever, who have been infected, you need two negative cultures the same way that was just described 24 hours apart.
<56:19>
That’s a good question John. In the original guidelines as they were presented it was schools, not daycare. I think it’s very important we should probably, if we have not discussed that, go back and discuss that in some detail about whether or not that’s equivalent to school. It’s a good question.
<57:07>
Don’t, I’m sorry go ahead. I just want, there’s an answer to this.
<57:19>
The small print here. It’s really small print. “In states with evidence of community transmission, bars, restaurants, food courts, gyms and other indoor and outdoor venues where groups of people congregate should be closed.”
