<33:19>
Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, the number I gave out is based on modeling, and I think it’s entirely conceivable that, if we do not mitigate to the extent that we’re trying to do, that you could reach that number.
<33:35>
Yeah. It’s possible. You can make a big soundbite about it, but the fact is, it’s possible. What we’re trying to do is not let that happen, so instead of concentrating on the upper and the lower, we’re saying that we’re trying to push it all the way down. But the second part of your question was, yes, we feel that the mitigation that we’re doing right now is having an effect. It’s very difficult to quantitate it, because you have two dynamic things going on at the same time. You have the virus going up, and you have the mitigation trying to push it down, but the decision to prolong, not prolong, but to extend this mitigation process until the end of April I think was a wise and prudent decision.
<34:16>
Dr. Birx and I spent a considerable amount of time going over all the data, why we felt this was a best choice of us, and the president accepted it, so in direct answer to your question, the idea that we may have this many cases played a role in our decision in trying to make sure that we don’t do something prematurely and pull back when we should be pushing.
<01:22:10>
You know, you made the comment about New Orleans, this could happen anywhere and that’s really one of the issues that we’re concerned about and why we were so reluctant to pull back at a time when we need to put our foot on the gas as opposed to on the brake. As what Dr. Birx said, this is exactly what you see. There are a number of communities, cities, or states, what have you, out there in which they’re trickling along like that.
<01:22:36>
Don’t get complacent about that because that’s exactly the way the virus works. It goes like this, then like this, then it goes up like that. That’s exactly what happened in New Orleans. That’s what happened in a terrible way with New York. That’s what we’re trying to avoid in multiple locations throughout the country. We shouldn’t take any solace when we see low levels in different states, different cities, different areas because they’re very vulnerable to an explosion.
