<01:25:47>
Yeah. Thank you. So I hope you got from the conference today that we’re triangulating data that we know from the case numbers, the testing numbers, the supply chain numbers to create an integrated picture so that we can really support hospitals in their needs. And I think that level of granularity is really critical. Secondly, I just want to make the point that we really applaud the governors that are looking at a whole of state or a whole of metro approach. And what do I mean by that? The United States going into this had about 160,000 ventilators across the United States and another 60,000 to 70,000 anesthesia machines. That’s about five times what most of the European countries have, but it’s a matter of distribution to need and I really applaud the governors that are bringing together their public hospitals with their more private hospitals and their visibility across their state.
<01:26:52>
Because what we tried to talk about yesterday is every state, every county is different. That’s why we’re looking at it at that level of granularity. And as we move through this epidemic, the needs need to be very tailored to those counties and frankly, those hospitals. There is a reason why the president and Mr. Kushner have been very much involved in finding out what the public hospitals need. Why is that? Because the public hospitals sometimes have the weakest supply chain because they’re often sometimes not as attractive to private sector distributors or they may be too busy caring for the needs of patients to be really on top of their order forms and their supply chains. So really listening to the community that’s at the front of the of this fight and getting feedback from those specific communities no matter where they are and listening to the frontline healthcare workers because it’s their reality that is important to all of us, whether you’re the mayor or the governor or the federal government.
<01:27:55>
And if they are saying they need something, we have to work together to supply that. And so that’s what you’re seeing with this triangulation. Every county will move through this differently and that allows us to move around these vital issues that protect the frontline healthcare workers and protect the patients through the ventilators to make sure that the supply chain is aligned with the need as it happens. Now you have to have very good data in order to be willing to work in that level of granularity. And that’s what we’ve been working on to really develop that level of granularity to ensure that. So I just wanted to say one other thing about testing. Just to give you the bottom line data of what we’re seeing. We appreciate the groups who are reporting. Not everyone is reporting yet. And this is part of us trying to understand at a very granular level, we do have two States that do have 35% positives and that’s New York and New Jersey.
<01:28:54>
So that confirms very clearly that that’s a very clear and important hot spot. Louisiana though has 26% of their tests are positive. Michigan, Connecticut, Indiana, Georgia, Illinois… So that should tell you where the next hotspots are coming, are at 15% test positive. And then Colorado, DC, Rhode Island and Massachusetts are at 13%. There’s a significant number of States still under 10% everyone that I didn’t discuss. California and Washington remains steady at an 8% rate. So what we’re seeing finally is testing improving, more testing being done, still a high level of negatives in States without hotspots, allowing them to do more of this surveillance and containment. And then prioritizing this new rapid test kit to those areas that may not have the same amount of access to the Indian health services and to the public health institutions and the public health and state labs so that they can use that and start forward leaning into surveillance. Now we know there are people waiting for tests and they’re waiting for tests because when these areas got onto the logarithmic curve, we prioritized people where the test decision would make it critical for their care. And so we prioritized hospitals and we prioritize nurses and doctors and frontline workers. So that means if you went through a drive through or you went through your doctor, you could have that delay. So the masks? So what I tried to give you is how we’re using data in a very granular way. And so there is experiential data when you look at communities that have oftentimes utilized masks in general for personal protection from when they particularly are themselves sick and have used their masks in public. And we’ve looked at the rate of this Covid-19 in those populations. And then we’re looking at the scientific evidence to bring those two pieces together. Let me just say one thing though. The most important thing is the social distancing and washing your hands. And we don’t want people to get an artificial sense of protection because they’re behind a mask. Because if they’re touching things, remember your eyes are not in the mask. So if you’re touching things and then touching your eyes, you’re exposing yourself in the same way. So we don’t want people to feel like, “Oh, I’m wearing a mask, I’m protected and I’m protecting others.” You may be protecting others but don’t get a false sense of security that that mask is protecting you exclusively from getting infected because there are other ways that you can get infected because of the number of asymptomatic and mild cases that are out there.
<01:31:50>
And so this worries us and that’s why the debate is continuing about the mask because we don’t want… When we’re trying to send a signal that every single person in this country needs to stay six feet away from everybody. That needs to be washing their hands constantly and know where their hands are to send a signal that we think a mask is equivalent to those pieces. So when the advisory comes out, it will be an additive piece if it comes out rather than saying, “This is a substitute for”, and we want to make sure everybody understands it is not a substitute for the presidential guidelines that have already gone out. And to be absolutely clear about that.
Journalist 9: <01:32:31>
Quick question about <crosstalk 01:32:33> the test. There’s a lot of evidence we’re seeing, the experts are saying that a high number of these tests could be producing false negatives. So…
<01:32:45>
Of the Roche and Abbott test?
Journalist 9: <01:32:48>
That as many as one in three tests might be providing false negatives. I thought maybe you could explain <crosstalk 01:32:54>.
<01:32:52>
That would almost be impossible with having 35% positives. If that was true, you would have 100% positive or 66% positive. So what I can tell you is the number of positive tests is tracking very closely with the number of cases diagnosed. So I will look into that. I look at the Roche and Abbott numbers every night. They’re trending exactly in the same way and that’s important when you’re validating data to really validate does this same site… In other words, I’m looking between testing sites to see are there consistencies, is there an anomaly to make sure for what you just very specifically asked. So I will go back and look at it more carefully. I haven’t seen that kind of anomaly.
<01:33:42>
This same platform is being used across the and that’s a range from what I reported, 3% positivity up to 35% positivity and that range reflects also what we’re seeing with the hotspots and the number of cases and frankly, we hate to talk about it, but it also tracks with the hospitalizations independent of diagnosis and the mortality that we’re seeing. So all of those pieces validate together.
Journalist 9: <01:34:10>
<crosstalk 01:34:10> you concerned that people might be getting a false sense of security or that we might not be seeing all of the data here on the composite?
<01:34:15>
Well, I’m telling you that I’m still missing 50% of the data from reporting. I have 660 tests reported in. We’ve done 1.3 million. So there is… And it could be those sites. So we do need to see… The bill said you need to report. We’re still not receiving 100% of the tests.
Journalist 10: <01:34:36>
<crosstalk 01:34:36> With regard to the test, the President’s sample collection took one minute, results were reported back in 15 minutes. I realized you’re the president of the United States, but when will everyone get to take a test that works that quickly and you get results that quickly?
<01:34:51>
So these are new tests and we have prioritized the groups that we think have the least access to testing now. And who do we mean by that? We mean the Indian health service. They’re often in remote areas, rural areas. The governors of the Northwestern States that may not have the advantage of these high throughput machines that are often across the East coast and in high metro areas, Colorado and then across the West coast. So we’ve prioritized the presidential 15 minute test to the Indian health services and public health labs so that they can support nursing home testing and other areas where we think surveillance is absolutely key. So at this moment they’re prioritized in that way. <crosstalk 01:35:38> Yes, 1,200 of them are going out in that way.
Journalist 10: <01:35:41>
<crosstalk 01:35:41> Do more of those tests need to be made in order for more people…
<01:35:44>
Yeah.
Journalist 10: <01:35:45>
Okay. So in a matter of…
<01:35:47>
So I’m glad you asked that because today, there’s 18,000 of these machines already out there. We’re trying to find out exactly where everyone is because you can see that gives you amazing flexibility because if people would allow it to be loaned to a state that’s in a hot spot or a state where you want to do additional surveillance, 18,000 tests, 18,000 machines is a huge amount and it really gets to your very question about how we can prioritize what we have at the same time we’re moving out what is new. So really figuring out who should those go to, how can we ask communities, because these will be in the community, to share those machines into the community who need the testing now. And I think that’s really an incredible question that really needs to be answered over the next 24 hours.
Journalist 11: <01:36:42>
A point of clarity about the face covering guidance. You said it’s still a point of debate. You said they use the phrase “the guidance if it comes out.” Is the guidance coming out and when?
<01:37:09>
Just remember it’s not a substitute for everything that we’re asking people to do. And just do that to everybody out there across the country, when we say no gatherings of 10, we want it to be clear if you have a family of 10 we don’t want you to be split up. But we don’t expect people to be having dinner parties, cocktail parties. I know you’ve seen the slope in the United States versus the slope in Italy and we have to change that slope. We have to change the logarithmic curve that we’re on.
<01:37:46>
We see country after country having done that. What it means in the United States is not everyone is doing it. So we’re only as strong is every community, every county, every state, every American following the guidelines to a T. And I can tell by the curve and as it is today that not every American is following it, and so this is really a call to action. We see Spain, we see Italy, we see France, we see Germany. When we see others beginning to bend their curves, we can bend ours, but it means everybody has to take that same responsibility as Americans.
Journalist 11: <01:38:31>
<crosstalk 01:38:31> Mr. President, can I have a quick follow up on oil, please. In your conversations with Russia and Saudi Arabia, did you have to make any concessions to get them to agree to cut their production? Like did you agree to taught us production of oil?
