<01:10:05>
You know, out of respect for every single health care worker that’s on the front line, whether they’re a nurse, a doctor, a respiratory therapist, the phlebotomist, the persons who come in the rooms to clean, out of respect for them, we as Americans should be doing everything possible. And what I meant was if you can consolidate, if you can send one person, the entire family doesn’t need to go out on these occasions. This is a highly transmittable virus. We’ve been saying that we want every American to know that what they’re doing is making a difference, but we need to have solidarity of commitment from everyone to really, so, maybe once every two weeks we can do a grocery store and pharmacy shop for the entire family. So it was really about we have to do everything we can. I know, I see on the TV stations, the level of human suffering in the hospitals.
<01:11:12>
Dr. Fauci and Admiral Giroir have spent our lives taking care of others. We need to take care of each other now as Americans and do everything that’s in those guidelines. And I know they’re tough. I know incredibly how tough they are. My grandchild of 10 months got a fever of 105 this weekend. I’m the doctor and I couldn’t get there. I mean, so I’m trying to explain to my daughter how to listen to her lungs, how to listen to her lungs, <crosstalk 01:11:43>, and then the baby’s lungs.
<01:11:45>
I did not go there.
<01:11:47>
Because of you two. I mean, you can’t take that kind of risk with the leaders of the country.
<01:11:55>
Daughter, but she’s coming out of it.
<01:11:58>
Yes. But you know, and that’s just an illustration that I know you all are making sacrifices, and I guess I want everyone to take this seriously. So that was really a call of seriousness of how important this is and how we’re starting to see the impact. But you can see what can happen when you come at this a little bit too late, and that’s why the message before you see it, before you have to see your hospitals, and your emergency rooms overwhelmed, it is on us as a member of this community of this country to do everything possible to save one another. And so that was really what I was saying, and I will continue to say that because I do believe it’s making a difference. You can start to see it making a difference, but we have to do even more right now because that will predict where we are two or three weeks from now.
<01:46:36>
Thank you Mr. Vice President. I think you heard very clearly our concern in the New York, New Jersey metro areas. This is also includes Connecticut and Long Island. As we talked about, we did see a significant increase in Sussex County over the weekend. The weekend numbers are always difficult. I want to be clear on that because sometimes case reporting is not as accurate over the weekend, so we’ll be watching very closely today’s numbers and Tuesdays numbers. Also very of course focused on the New Orleans metro area and that includes the three parishes of Jefferson, St. John’s the Baptist and New Orleans Proper and of course the Detroit area, which is Oakland and Wayne.
<01:47:22>
As we mentioned before, we’re continuing to track very closely out of concerns of it potentially reaching logarithmic phase in the Chicago metro area, the Boston metro area, the DC and Baltimore metro area, Indianapolis, the Denver area and two regions of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia and the Pittsburgh area, as well as Dallas and Houston in the Texas area.
<01:47:45>
I had a very encouraging call, because we also don’t want to miss anything. Remember I showed you a lot of states were very much under 25 and 50 cases for 100,000. There were a few standouts that we were concerned about, which was Vermont, New Hampshire, Idaho and Montana. We had excellent calls today with their health commissioners and they’re really were able. They’re on top of the situation. These were micro outbreaks that occurred due to ski events and weddings and nursing homes. And they were able to describe and critical detail the incidents and how they’re tracking and tracing. They are still doing full contact tracing through those areas.
<01:48:31>
And I just want to applaud these… both a rural and metro problem and I really want to applaud how many of the states that may have smaller populations are approaching this. That gives us encouragement of how we can talk about beginning surveillance activities. At the same time, we’re following these very clear outbreaks and ensuring that there’s full supplies based on the very granular data that we’re utilizing. And I just want to thank the mayors and governors who get us that granular data and allows us to make these deep interpretation across all of United States. We know each governor is concerned about their areas, but these metro areas cover different areas. So the Philadelphia area also includes Southern New Jersey and Delaware. And so we have to really look at things very much as both the metro and the communities that surround those metros. And so all of those people, we ask you again throughout the United States to follow these very clear guidance.
<01:49:31>
I want to just recognize both HHS and you heard about the work that Admiral Giroir is doing, the work that Dr. Hahn and Administrator Seema Verma are doing and also Administrator Engels in the work of HRSA to really ensure that our federally funded clinics are actively engaged in all of these aspects.
<01:49:51>
But I also want to recognize the military, the medical corps, the nursing corps and the medical subspecialty core. These were my brothers and sisters for 29 years. It is highly unusual for the active force to be called into a domestic situation. I think that shows you how seriously we’re taking this at the federal government level. In my 29 years in the military, I was never deployed domestically. This is showing you how serious of an event we take this. If the military is deploying domestically, it is another reason for every American to be following these guidelines.
<01:50:29>
Finally, on CDC quietly launched a new website. It’s you go to cdc.gov and you go to COVID-19 you can find their surveillance data. This surveillance data is bringing together our influenza like illnesses with their syndromic management databases so that you can track the respiratory disease across the United States. The states are used to using this system. It’s in emergency rooms, it’s in hospitals, it’s in doctor’s offices, and it gives you insight and you can see very clearly influenza A peak. You can see the influenza B peak and now you can start to see the respiratory disease from this current outbreak. These are the systems that exist within the United States that will be strengthened in order for us to do comprehensive surveillance.
<01:51:23>
I just want to assure the American people while we’re working on these outbreaks, we’re also working on bringing new systems together that have a comprehensive look across the country, building on the strong work of CDC as a public health institution so that we can work county by county, community by community, state by state to really understand where this virus is and where it will be, but also as an early alert for us in the future. I want just want to assure the American people that as we’re working on the crisis of today, we’re looking to the future to ensure we have the systems in place to bring those early alert systems together while we work on the antibody testing and why we work on continuing spreading and increasing the diagnostic capabilities that you see presented here. Thank you.
<01:57:44>
It just gives me an opportunity to thank and respect the modelers who have really worked on this because there’s a large number of them have worked very hard and had done a lot of predictions and what we did is we did predictions of predictions. We like to integrate data and so that’s where you come up with these numbers.
<01:58:01>
I think Dr. Fauci and I both strongly believe that if we work as hard as we can over the next several weeks that we will see potential to go under the numbers that were predicted by the models. And I think that is really two things. It is the extraordinary compliance of the American people and the diligence that they have mitigated with, because remember we are doing this strictly by behavior change. It’s very hard to change trajectory of viruses on just behavior change. We have had difficulty in our past doing that. That’s what we’re doing and that’s what the American people are doing. But the other side of that is the incredible insights that Washington state and others are providing on how to better care for the patients in the hospital. And so those two pieces are coming together that could have a dramatic impact on the predictions of the mortality from this disease.
<02:02:36>
Well, thank you. Due to her… the great care of my 91 year old nurse mother and my daughter, she’s down to like 100 to 99 now, but it was three days of 104, 105 which is… babies can do that. But it’s very scary, especially when I couldn’t assure myself that she was fine. It was just some sleepless nights for me and them as they kept her fever down. Thank you for asking.
<02:03:09>
No, I’m sure it’s roseola or something. They have not been out of the house. They are not allowed out of the house. They’ve got two granddaughters under… one, 2-1/2 almost and one only 10 months and my 91 year old and 96 year old. So no one is allowed in that house or out of that house because there’s too much precious cargo inside the house.
