<13:46>
Thank you Mr. President. Just a couple of things and then I just want to make a comment about something that happened yesterday. You’re going to hear from Dr. Birx soon about the numbers that we’ve been talking about, how things are starting to balance off. And I think the more as we go by each day, I think we’re going to see, and again, I never like to get ahead of myself, or of Dr. Birx. But it looks like even though we’ve had a really bad week last week, remember when I was speaking to you before I was saying this was really a bad week. There’s still going to be a lot of deaths, but we’re starting to see in some areas now that flattening, particularly in a place that was a hot spot like New York. That’s the first thing.
<14:25>
The second thing is that I had a really very, very productive conversation with the Congressional Black Caucus this morning for about an hour. And they really wanted to know what exactly are we going to be doing in the immediate, as well as the long range about the health disparities and the discrepancies both in infection and in poor outcome in the minorities in general, specifically African American. And I made it very clear to them that what we have to do is focus on getting the resources where the vulnerable are to be able to get testing done, to be able to get the appropriate identification where proper and where appropriate to isolate and contact trace if we can. But also to help mitigate in a community that is suffering and suffering much more disproportionately. So I just wanted to get that to the way.
<15:17>
The other point I wanted to make is that I, I had an interview yesterday that I was asked a hypothetical question. And hypothetical questions sometimes can get you into some difficulty, because it’s what would have, or could have. The nature of the hypothetical question was if in fact we had mitigated earlier, could lives have been saved? And the answer to my question was as I always do and I’m doing right now perfectly honestly say, “Yes.” Obviously, mitigation helps. I’ve been up here many times telling you that mitigation works. So if mitigation works and you instigate it and you initiate it earlier, you will probably have saved more lives. If you initiated it later, you probably would have lost more lives. You initiate it at a certain time. That was taken as a way that may be somehow something was at fault here.
<16:13>
So let me tell you from my experience, and I can only speak from my own experience, is that we had been talking before any meetings that we had, about the pros and the cons, the effectiveness, or not of strong mitigations. So discussions were going on mostly among the medical people about what that would mean. The first and only time that Dr. Birx, I went in and formally made a recommendation to the president to actually have a “shutdown”, in the sense of not really shut down, but to really have strong mitigation. We discussed it. Obviously there would be concerned by some that in fact that might have some negative consequences. Nonetheless, the president listened to the recommendation and went to the mitigation. The next second time that I went with Dr. Birx into the president and said, “15 days are not enough. We need to go 30 days.” Obviously there were people who had a problem with that because of the potential secondary effects. Nonetheless, at that time, the president went with the health recommendations, and we extended it another 30 days. So I can only tell you what I know and what my recommendations were. But clearly as happens all the time, there were interpretations of that response to a hypothetical question that I just thought it would be very nice for me to clarify because I didn’t have the chance to clarify. Thank you. <crosstalk 00:17:50>. Excuse me?
<17:52>
You know what, to be honest with you, I don’t even remember what the date was. But I can just tell you the first and only time that I went in and said, “We should do mitigation strongly.” The response was, “Yes, we’ll do it.”
<18:04>
No. The travel restriction is separate. That was whether or not we wanted to go into a mitigation stage of 15 days of mitigation. The travel was another recommendation when we went in and said, “We probably should be doing that.” And the answer was yes. And then another time was, “We should do it with Europe.” And the answer was yes. And the next time, “We should do it with the UK.” And the answer was yes.
<18:27>
Yeah.
<18:29>
No, it wasn’t. That was the wrong choice of words. You know what it was when people discuss, not necessarily in front of the president, when people discuss, they say, “Well, this is going to have maybe a harmful effect on this, or on that.” So it was a poor choice of words. There wasn’t anybody saying, “No, you shouldn’t do that.”
<18:45>
No, I’m doing it…. Everything I do is voluntarily. Please. Don’t even imply that.
<02:14:09>
I just want to make one comment that related to a question that was asked and then we’ll have questions. I don’t want to take too much time. The idea about how we would evaluate from a purely public health standpoint about what I call reentry into some sort of normality as health people I don’t know anything about nor do I have a claim to know anything about economics. They’re going to be people that know a lot more than I do who are going to give advice about all of the committees that the president was talking about. But the one thing we do know as health people, as physicians and scientists and public health people, as I mentioned I think over the weekend on one of the shows is that some people may think it’s going to be like a light switch on and off, we’re either out and we’re in.
<02:14:57>
It’s just not going to be that way because we have a very large country and there are different impacts, as you see New York is very different from other parts of the country, from the Midwest, from the mountain region, California and Washington different than new Orleans. So as we discuss and consider the public health aspects, it likely would be something that I refer to as sort of like a rolling re-entry. It’s not going to be one size fits all. So I don’t know what it’s going to be yet because we still have time to look at it. Dr Birx, who does an amazing job with showing you the data and the charts that’s going to likely influence some of the recommendations that we will make. But I can assure you there will be recommendations that we’ve based purely on public health and the president will get a lot of other input from others, but we’ll give the honest public health recommendation.
<02:23:52>
What do you mean?
<02:24:14>
I have to think about that because when you have conversations with the president, sometimes they really should be confidential and what you give him because he’s going to have to make his own choice. I have to think about that.
<02:24:34>
He is, I mean I can tell you one thing, he’ll listen, but I think what’s going to happen, I don’t know for sure is that he will get input from a number of individuals representing a number of aspects of society. One of them will be health. The only thing that I can tell you is that I will give him the advice based on evidence. My observation of what the best public health approach would be.
<02:25:42>
I don’t want to use the word mistakes because when you’re in the fog of war when you’re doing something, you have to make decisions, you get input from a number of individuals. It’s always a moving target and I just don’t want to have anything taken out of context because I already had one of those already in the last couple of days, so I don’t want to go through it again. I wouldn’t say mistake could things have done better, of course. I mean nothing is perfect and you could always do better. But I mean, I hesitate to say something is a mistake.
<02:26:22>
Well, I mean I can’t comment about anything outside of my own field, but the thing that when I think back on was evolving in my mind was something that was a virus that was much worse than what I had thought it was going to be based on what we had learned early on when it was first felt to be something that just jumped from an animal to a human and really didn’t have much capability of going human to human. And then all of a sudden you find out that not only was it not just animal to human, that’s probably the way it started, but then as you go back and you realize there were probably a lot of infections that maybe if we had dealt into that a little bit more, we could have learned that not only is it affecting human to human, but it’s transmitting really efficiently.
<02:27:21>
When I question myself, I’m not perfect. Maybe I, I wouldn’t say made mistakes, but maybe I should have really tried to delve into that a little bit more about what was going on, but the information wasn’t as forthcoming as I would have liked. And then all of a sudden when you find out that you’re dealing with something that is not only what had been your worst nightmare, because people ask me that, what is your worst nightmare? A brand new virus that’s respiratory transmitted that has a high degree of transmissibilities that has a high degree of morbidity and mortality. You know, is that a mistake? Maybe I should have been able to realize that earlier, I’m not sure it’s a mistake. It was just an evolving thing that we finally realized and said, “Whoa, this is really worse than we could have imagined.”
