<01:52:26>
No, no, actually I just wanted to… okay. I will. It related to the… something I said yesterday about that’s somewhat paradox of everything going up at the same time that the feeding into this engine of this virus is starting to show some signs.
<01:52:46>
Governor Cuomo today reported an interesting data from New York, namely that the number of hospitalizations, the number of admissions to intensive care, and the number of requirements for intubations over the last three days have actually started to level off. Again, everybody who knows me knows I’m very conservative about making projections, but those are the kind of good signs that you look for. You never even begin to think about claiming victory prematurely. But that’s the first thing you see when you start to see the turnaround. That doesn’t mean we don’t have a lot of work to do. That tells me instead of saying, “Hmm, that’s pretty good,” it’s we got there through mitigation. We cut off the stream of people who ultimately required hospitalization, required intubation, required all of the kinds of extreme methods.
<01:53:38>
We just got to realize that this is an indication despite all the suffering and the death that has occurred, that what we have been doing has been working. The call that I say every time I get to this podium is just it up, because this is going to get us out of it. This is our best and only great public health tool.
<01:54:10>
You’re going to see it most dramatically, John, in a place like New York where you see it goes up and peak and then it will hopefully, and I think it will come down. When you have places like Seattle, which did a… and Washington state who did a really good job from the beginning, it never really did that so they were able to keep it down and on the charts that Dr. Birx showed when you saw California and Washington state, they were fortunate. They did a good job, that it never really got out of hand. Again, this is a big country and you have a number of different metropolitan areas. I think if we do it right, you’re going to see those who have not peaked, will not peak and those who have peaked, the New Orleans, the New York, New Jersey, Chicago, Detroit and others. You’re going to see the same thing if we keep our foot on the accelerator.
<01:55:33>
I don’t think that you’re going to have to say that the country cannot get back to a real degree of normalcy until you absolutely have a safe and effective vaccine. It will be really evaluating the kinds of things and that’s the reason why it was discussed up here, why it’s so important to have an antibody test so you know what the penetrance is in society. And then we have a situation where we don’t ever want to get to have to mitigate. We wanted to be able to contain, and by the time we have to face what’s going to happen with this going back to normality, we will have in place the capability of identifying, isolating, contact tracing so that it never gets out of hand. Ultimately, the show stopper will be, obviously, a vaccine where you can vaccinate people and you won’t have it.
<01:56:28>
There’s going to be another issue that’s going to be important and it has to do with somewhat of a comparison. For example, with influenza, we go through multiple cycles of influenza. There’s always a degree of background immunity in the population. I mean that will ultimately happen if we get a situation where we get back to normal. Now, I hope we don’t have so people infected that we actually have that herd immunity. But I think it would have to be different than it is right now. So again, remember when you say normalcy, I mean we could give back normally, economically and otherwise without necessarily saying we’re going to forget about the virus. We have to pay attention to this because we’ve had a very bad experience with this virus.
<01:59:00>
I’m glad you asked that question because I’ve said it a couple of times here. I want to say it again. Repetition is good… is that models are good. They help us to make projections. But as you get data in, you modify your model. And I’ve always said data always trumps models, always.
<01:59:22>
What I feel, and I believe that Dr. Birx also feels, that I don’t think anyone has ever mitigated the way I’m seeing people mitigate right now. This has never happened in this country before. I am optimistic, always cautiously optimistic, that if we do what I’ve been talking about over the past few minutes, we can make that number go down. I don’t accept every day that we’re going to have to have 100 to 200,000 deaths. I think we can really bring that down no matter what a model says, because when the data comes in, they’ll start to saying, “Maybe you are essentially overshooting the model.” And I think that’s where we can go. That’s the reason why I like to always get up and tell the American people, it’s the virus doing what the virus wants to do and it’s we as a society doing what we can do.
