<34:50>
Yeah. So thank you. You all know, we’ve all, you’ve all seen the models. You’ve seen the models from Imperial, you’ve seen the models from Columbia. We’ve reviewed 12 different models, and then we went back to the drawing board over the last week or two and worked from the ground up utilizing actual reporting of cases. It’s the way we built the HIV model, the TB model, the malaria model. When we finished, the other group that was working in parallel, which we didn’t know about, HIME, and Chris Murray, ended up at the same numbers. So if you go on his website, you can see the concern that we had with the growing number of potential fatalities. All of the flu models predicted anywhere between 1.6 and 2.2 million fatalities if we didn’t mitigate. I think you all knew those numbers.
<35:47>
Some of them predicted half of the United States would get infected and have that level of mortality, so we worked very hard together to really look at all of the impacts of the different mitigations that have been utilized around the world, and use that evidence base to really bring that data and that evidence to the President to consider for extending, which is not a simple situation when you ask people to say home for another 30 days, so they have to know that we really built this on scientific evidence and the potential to save hundreds of thousands of American lives, and we know that’s a huge sacrifice for everyone. We know it’s a sacrifice for every mother and child and father who’s also self-isolating. There are people that have to go out to work, and we know the compromises that they’re making, but it’s all to protect not only Americans, but the healthcare providers. The healthcare providers that are on the front lines, and you’ve seen them, and you’ve seen how difficult this has been.
<36:46>
We’re really working, there will be a comprehensive piece presented on Tuesday that really talks about not only diagnosing individuals, but also increasing our surveillance, now that we have more test kits, so that we can really stop and contain new infections at the same time we’re really dedicating test kits still to the critical diagnosis, so that people can get the treatment that they want, and so that we can ensure, when people come to the hospital, that they know that the nurses and the doctors and the equipment that they need will be there to serve them, because together, as Americans, we’re going to bring down the number of infections so we don’t have 2.2 million deaths or 1.6 million deaths, but really work very hard to keep this in its lowest numbers we possibly can.
<01:20:38>
You know, I think you heard us talk about a week ago that we were very worried about the numbers and how they were increasing in Louisiana, how they were increasing in Cook County, how they were increasing in Dearborn and Detroit. I think those are areas that we’re still watching very careful, and like the President said, when people get this virus, some people do very poorly. When certain metro areas get exposed to the virus, we see this really very rapid expansion of the virus. We think it may have been circulating there for a couple of weeks.
<01:21:12>
I don’t like to look backwards. I only like to look forwards and really we are putting all of our effort into ensuring that the people of New Orleans, the people of the Detroit region, frankly, the people of New York. Some of the fastest growing counties are not New York itself, New York City, when you look at it per hundred thousand, it’s Rockland, it’s Bergen. I mean, all of these places are people that have transited through cities, and that’s why we really did want the travel advisory just to really warn people to watch out for their own health, to really take their temperatures. It can go from 50, hundred, 500 cases, and then the next thing you know, it’s 2,000, it’s 4,000, it’s 10,000, and because it then gets across all communities, people get very sick.
