<35:31>
So of course this is a projection and it’s a projection based on using very much what’s happened in Italy, and then looking at all the models, and so as you saw on that slide, that was our real number, that 100,000 to 200,000, and we think that that is the range. We really believe and hope every day that we can do a lot better than that, because that’s not assuming 100% of every American does everything that they’re supposed to be doing. But I think that’s possible.
<36:10>
You know, you’ll have an up slope, so as mortality, the fatalities to this disease will increase and then it will come back down, and it will come back down slower than the rate at which it went up. And so that is really the issue, how much we can push the mortality down.
<37:14>
So, could you get up slide number two? So that’s a generic, I’m sorry if you can go back to the slides and put up slide two, okay, so what I showed you was a generic picture of what happens in an epidemic when you mitigate, so no mitigation, mitigate. This is based on the experience around the globe with this particular virus, and so it does have a tail, but the peak you can see by this projection, and this is the IHME data, the peak is over the next two weeks, and this is tracking mortality, so the number of fatalities from this virus, and so that’s the part that we think we can still blunt through the superb medical care that every client is receiving, but also even more stringent, people following the guidelines.
<38:16>
This is June.
<38:22>
It’s a projection.
<39:37>
I think because the model, that model that was from IHME, that’s based in heavily ladened by the data that has come in from New York and New Jersey and Connecticut. So, you know, that can skew to a higher peak and more significant mortality. If all of the other states are able, and all the other metro areas are able to hold that case number down, then it’s a very different picture. But you have to predict on the data you have, which is heavily skewed to New York and New Jersey.
<41:00>
Can we have the next slide or slide after that? Just go, yeah, one more slide. Perfect. Yeah.
<41:44>
I mean, remember, California and Washington state, were down here and they had some of the earliest cases.
<46:08>
Well, right now, and I think if you ask Chris Murray, he would say he’s using the information coming out of New York and New Jersey, and applying that to potentially other states having the same outcomes. I just want to say again, this yellow line, and this is all corrected for a hundred thousand residents, so this is normalized so we can compare apples to apples. This is still Washington state, this yellow. So they’ve been able to, for a long time of measuring cases, not have a spike. So it’s possible, and we’re watching very closely to make sure it doesn’t have a spike, but that’s what the people in Washington state are doing. This is what every community, so Washington state early, about two weeks before New York or New Jersey, California, a week before New York or New Jersey, really talked to their communities and decided to mitigate before they started seeing this number of cases. And now we know that that makes a big difference. Early, as Dr. Fauci said, If you wait until you see it, it’s too late.
<47:26>
So there’s a demographic breakdown that we’ve discussed before related to mortality, and it’s as we’re seeing in New York exactly what we saw in Italy, very low mortality. Not to say that young people under 30 or young people under 40 aren’t getting ill, they are, but most of them are recovering. So the profile looks identical to Italy with increasing mortality with age and pre-existing medical conditions. And so that is holding in the same way. But what we’re hoping is that through the work of communities, and again it comes down to communities. This is communities deciding that this is important to them to not have the experience of New York and New Jersey, and I think, we are worried about groups all around the globe. I mean, I don’t know if you heard the report this morning, there’s 8,000 ventilators in the UK. If you translate that to the United states, that would be like the United states having less than 40,000 ventilators. We have five times that amount. So I mean, these are the things that everybody is having to face, and I think the United states is in an excellent position from our medical care position, but we don’t want to have to test that system. We want this to be a much smaller epidemic with much smaller mortality.
<51:00>
So even today, which is I have to say, coming out of laboratories and develop tests, and worked on vaccines and then gone to the field to actually combat epidemics, it is disappointing to me right now that we have about 500,000 capacity of avid tests that are not being utilized. So they are out there in the states, they’re not being run and not utilized. So now we have to figure out how do we create awareness? Because sometimes when you put an early platform out, like our first platform out in the high speed was Roche, so you get that out, people get dependent on that and then don’t see that there’s availability of other tests. So right now there’s over a half a million tests sitting capacity that are not being utilized. So we’re trying to figure how do we inform states about where these all are? How do we work through every laboratory association so they’re aware? And how do we raise awareness so people know that there’s point of care, there’s Thermo Fisher, there’s Abbott testing, and there’s Roche.
<52:04>
And if you add those together, that’s millions of tests a week.
<52:10>
So those are the all <crosstalk 00:18:10>, or they’re not even being used, so that’s what we’re working on.
<52:18>
Because when people get used to a single platform, they keep sending it back to that lab, so it’s getting an acute way to get on a Roche machine, rather being moved to this other lab that may have Abbott capacity, because they’re all in different laboratories. <inaudible 00:52:33> So I think, well actually, Admiral Giroir is figuring it out to really create some kind of visual, so that every governor and every health commissioner can see all of their capacity in their countries, I mean, in their states, county by county, so that they know where the tests are. So we pushed a lot of tests out, but they’re not all being utilized.
<53:42>
That was full mitigation.
<55:04>
No, we’ll go together. We’ve been at this a long time. You go first.
<56:10>
You know, it just has to do with, if you had more New Yorks and New Jersies, Chicago, Detroit, LA, Dallas, Houston, all of our major cities modeled like New York, that’s what gets us into trouble. But I am reassured by looking at the Seattle line, by looking at the LA line, by looking at what California has been able to do, that that is not something that I don’t believe that’s going to happen. That is the outside case of having 10, 15 metros like New York and the New Jersey metro area.
<57:05>
Well, California and Washington state reacted very early to this. Yes, Washington state had some of the earliest infections. They have kept it low and steady and for now a month has been tracking it with a small increase in the number of cases, but not this log rhythmic form of the virus, and so that’s the piece that we’re trying to prevent. That’s the piece that we’re trying to prevent in New Orleans, and Detroit, and Chicago, and in Boston right now, and trying to make sure that each of those cities work more like California than the New York metro area.
