<01:11:54>
Sorry. Thank you for talking about testing and testing capacity because we have been talking about that for several weeks because we could see and we did a full inventory of every single state and every single laboratory. And I also appreciate you talking about the implementation piece of the testing capacity and it’s complicated. So, we have a team calling every lab and working through the American Society of Microbiology, as I mentioned before, to really work with every lab director to see what the issues are in each laboratory. And I just want to thank administrator Burma who really worked on increasing the funding for this test and uniquely doubling the funding for the coronavirus nucleic acid test, from $50 to $100. To really address some of the issues about laboratory technicians, because sometimes we think these tests run themselves, they don’t. They actually need people to help with the machines.
<01:12:56>
So, we were talking about purchasing more machines. We actually need to have additional laboratory technicians to really be able to work all of those machines. And so, it’s lab by lab, state by state, and that’s the dialogue that’s going on now to unlock the full potential of the United States. Maybe the testing would not be needed at this moment, and maybe it is, but we want it also totally available in the Fall if it comes to an issue where we have to distinguish between flu and COVID-19. So, we’re building infrastructure and capacity not only for today but for tomorrow, and really showing a new way to really deal with pandemics and bring testing to scale because the country has never had to do this before. If you look at some of the other countries, they’re struggling with some of the issues from PPE to testing. And so, this is a universal issue, but we’re working on it as a collective to really have a very innovated and integrated way to approach testing.
<01:13:58>
And the maps are… I will ask the companies, because obviously it’s proprietary where every single machine is and if you have that machine and five others, maybe you don’t want to let that person know you have five others. It’s like Coke and Pepsi. So, I think we’re working very deliberately to really be able to share those maps. The governors, I can tell you that all of the state governors and the mayors have those maps and the addresses and the type of machine for every single laboratory in their jurisdictions so that they know-
<01:14:57>
Well, not only do we agree with it, it was in our guidelines.
<01:15:00>
That was fundamental to our guidelines, and I think we were the first-
<01:15:03>
<01:15:03>
That was fundamental to our guidelines and I think we were the first group that said testing asymptomatics will be key. We’ve always said that we think that’s a significant contribution to infections, and we went to the places where we thought it was most critical to find cases the earliest. And so, that is where we have asked states, in the guidelines, to start with nursing home, indigenous peoples and people in underserved areas and cities, to really ensure that we’re monitoring for any type… Because we know the asymptomatic piece may be the tip of the iceberg, in fact be the iceberg underneath the surface. And so, if you’re only seeing cases, maybe this…
<01:15:41>
But in parallel, we’re working with states and local governments to really define what that population is, by doing… In collaboration with states, working with them together to really reinforce this antibody testing but in a careful way, where you do two antibody testing to increase your sensitivity and specificity into the 99 plus percent range. Because we think it’s really important that you have a very high quality test, but a high quality test that you can really tell someone that they’ve had this before. And so, we’re waiting to have those two tests that we can do in series to really assure people. But that is… That was in the guidelines from the very beginning, and we think it’s fundamental both for right now and going through the fall. Because that will be our early alert, if any of other COVID virus reappears.
