<01:54:07>
Yeah, I want to thank the health commissioners and all of them that have been sending hospital data in. I think it’s really critical and important to all of us. New York City has been providing information, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and certainly Louisiana in these hotspots. That allows us, we can see where they are with the rising number of cases, where they are in their curve, what can be predicted, and really ensuring that people get what they need as they need it. So, I think many of the governors now and the health commissioners have been, “I’m intubating 20 people a day. Now I have enough for the next three days. If that doubles, we’re seeing our hospitalization rates stabilizing, but we still think there will be this many more in the next days.” That’s the information that they then translate into providing the ventilators. So, when you see the ventilator numbers going out, they’re going out in 150s and 200s because I think early on, we sent a big bolus out and then not all of them even today have been fully utilized. So, we want to make sure every state and every hotspot can be reassured that ventilators are there for them as they move through the curve. I think to date we’ve been able to do that. That’s what’s important to me is that people have what they need when they need it and to date people who have needed ventilators have been able to get on ventilators. I think that’s our goal with governors and with the mayors to make sure that continues to happen. But that means all of us have to work together. I think that’s what’s been really important over the last few weeks is people are not making generic requests anymore. They’re making data-driven requests because they know precisely what’s happening in their hospitals.
Reporter 5: <01:56:01>
Dr. Burke, when you were up here a little bit ago, you talked about the curve and what you’re seeing and your concern that people are not abiding by the social distancing guidelines. You seemed in your voice to be quite concerned about that. Has the curve changed enough at this point where that 100,000 to 240,000 people likely to die, has that shifted upwards at all?
<01:56:26>
No, it’s just when I look at … so, we’re in week 2.2 in our guidelines and I guess what I expected when the president put out guidelines that said don’t go to bars. Don’t be in groups more than 10 people. When we said that now over 16 days ago, that was serious. Then, you could see what happened subsequently and you can see the number of individuals who have been infected since then, because the people we’re seeing infected today and in hospitals today, were infected after the guidelines went out. So, that’s what we’re worried about and we’re worried that we’re still in this and that’s why the president extended it for 30 days. But we have to get out of this. We have to start seeing this.
<01:57:28>
Yes. There are states that are dead flat, but what changes the curve is a new Detroit, a new Chicago, a new New Orleans, a new Colorado. Those change the curves because it all of a sudden spikes with the number of new cases because you have a certain projection of new cases and then a whole nother city comes on top where they’re in their logarithmic phase. So, those ones that I talked about that had test results greater than 13% positive, all of those states or all of those counties are in logarithmic phase.
<01:58:09>
That means there are a lot of counties that aren’t and we’re excited about those counties that have been testing and still finding quite flat and hopefully, maybe Sunday or so or sometime this weekend we can go through all the states and the curves again. So you can see where, that California and Washington are still steady, but we’re watching very carefully because we see that you can go from this to this very quickly and this should not be happening any longer in new places if people are doing this social distancing, washing their hands, not getting together in large groups more than 10.
<01:59:09>
No, no, I don’t want to say that. No, don’t … No thank you, sir. In fact, I want to praise the States and I want to be able to call them out and show you their graphs so you can see. They’ve had steady small cases. They’re testing and they’re doing a lot of testing and their percent of test positives are under 5%. I mean, we have a whole group of States who are testing, and their positivity rate is under 5%. We know what it looks like on the logarithmic curve. You’re in the 13%, then 15%, then 26%, and then 35%. That’s what we’re trying to prevent and it’s the metro areas that are absolutely crucial in this. So, if you’re in a Metro area or you’re in a small city, please make sure all of your friends and family are following the guidelines. That’s the best thing we can do.
<02:01:10>
Thank you, sir.
<02:03:13>
So, why don’t I bring you the whole deck again and we’ll divide out the states so you can see them? Because you really have to see each state separately. That’s why I started with, there are states where you’ve heard me talk about how concerned I was. These are states that, before the guidelines went out or right after the guidelines went out, I mean you can look at … it’s on the website. If you go to the health data.org about when governors made clarity about closing their states as far as the social distancing, the washing of the hands, the bars, doing takeout, and you can line that up with the presidential guidelines. And not all states, when the presidential guidelines came out, immediately followed the presidential guidelines. Not all states did. There are states that also may have gotten many more seeds from outside communities.
<02:04:12>
That certainly is one of the issues that New York and New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island are facing. The virus came in from multiple places into those states. It was undetected early on and they have a very logarithmic curve. What I’m saying is even one of those curves in one county, in one city, is one curve too many. So, I am passionate about everyone following the guidelines because of the outlier curves. Maybe that was a better way of putting it.
<02:04:46>
The outlier curves in specific counties is to make sure that doesn’t happen anywhere else.
Reporter 7: <02:04:53>
So, would you feel better if every state did a stay at home order? Would you feel better?
<02:04:59>
I think most of the states have done that. I think if you … one death from this is one death too many. I mean, I come out of epidemics and pandemics. We know what to do. I know we don’t have a vaccine and I know we don’t have a therapeutic, but we know what can be done and others are doing it and most of the people in the United States are doing it.
<02:05:23>
It’s our communities. It’s every American that has to make these changes and I know they’re really hard and I know it’s hard to remember. I mean, I have to say to myself every day because I’m around very important people to never touch anything. And I’m just like paranoid now about touching things. I’m sure you all are too. I mean, we’ve gotten to the place where we don’t go to your places on Pebble Beach, we go to the one that’s open-aired because I mean you’re trying to protect your reporters. I mean, I understand that. We’re all trying to protect each other, and we all have to adapt to this new reality that we’re in right now.
<02:06:02>
I believe everybody is trying really hard and I’m just asking them to try really, really hard for these next 28 days because they will make a tremendous difference. We see that evidence. So, it’s like having a vaccine or a therapeutic because we know what works and we’re asking everybody to apply what works. I know it takes amazing attention to detail because the minute you forget or do something, you’re like, “Oh my gosh. I should’ve never done that.” And that’s the level of attention it takes.
Reporter 7: <02:06:33>
If covering our faces could help us do that-
