<29:07>
Thank you Mr. Vice President. Let me just start by recognizing the men and women of the military who are serving us every day, they are my brothers and sisters. I was privileged to serve alongside them for quite a long time. But critically, I just want to recognize at this moment the public health Commission Corps behind me. The Vice President, although he didn’t speak to this, actually went to see them yesterday at the place where they were working so that we wouldn’t disturb them because of their level of dedication and work through the last really 48 hours nonstop. So thank you. Thank you for your work and thank you for the work that you brought together and thank you Admiral for explaining it so quickly.
<29:49>
Let me just go back to the way laboratory work is done in the United States. I think all of you know when you go to your doctor and you need a lab test, it is either done in your doctor’s office, or it’s done in the lab that they send you to. When we started this emergency response to this virus, we started with what we knew, and that was the flu platform that we use for surveillance. It wasn’t set up in your doctors office, it wasn’t set up in our hospital laboratories. It was set up in state and local labs and at the CDC. Over the last two weeks, we’ve been working with the groups that have served you for decades.
<30:29>
The commercial laboratories that you don’t see, but your specimen goes to, to ensure they had the full capacity to meet the needs of the American people. Because it wasn’t going to be 50 to 100 to 1000 tests. It was going to be tens of thousands of tests that would be needed to be done. And so the last two weeks has been spent on really getting what you are used to the full force of the clinical laboratories and service. At the same time, what you heard described here is how do we serve the needs of the people in the community where they reside, where we know when we’re talking about people with vulnerable conditions, immunosuppression, medical conditions, or the elderly, that we don’t want them having to sit for long times in doctor’s office, in hospitals’ waiting rooms.
<31:15>
And you see what state and local governors have done to move past what we would normally do, a referral to your doctor’s office, into your hospital, but really providing community-led services to provide this testing. What the federal government is doing is augmenting that, augmenting the innovation that existed in South Korea, brought here to the shores of the United States and broaden our own novel way, but utilizing our healthcare delivery system, which is different than South Korea, and adapting our work to our system.
<31:50>
So to the hospitals and to the laboratories, we know that there will be pent up demand for this. Make sure every hospital, every laboratory, I’m speaking to the people who work in labs like I did myself. Make sure you have enough pipette tips, pipetters, and all of the equipment that you need to run this laboratory. You know what you need. Make sure you have that, and have that available for these tests. Because we know with this increased sampling, this increase ability to have community access, additional samples will be going to these laboratories. They can manage the high throughput, but they need all of the supplies that they would normally need to run these tests.
<32:31>
Think of it, if you’re doing HIV viral load, same thing. Just what you need, you know what you need, make sure you have that. That will be run, and the most important thing, I know for each and every one of you, is how am I going to get my results? And so we’re making sure also that the end of reporting is also there, that the reporting is available to you, to your doctor, and also to the state and local governments and the federal government, not with your personal identifiers but to really understand where there are positives, where there are negatives, so we can assure that healthcare providers have what they need to meet the demands of the American people and their health needs when they’re there.
<33:13>
Now, let me just say one bit about reporting. So you will notice as these tests roll out over this next week, we will have a spike in our curve. For those of you who watched China and China reporting, remember when they changed their definition and all of a sudden there was a blip in their curve? We are going to see that. We are going to see a spike as more and more people have access. And I want to finish by again reminding people how important it is. I know everybody’s going to want to go to these drive throughs, but if we could prioritize like we have asked you to prioritize the care of every person with a preexisting condition and immunosuppression, and the elderly with existing conditions.
<33:54>
We’ve asked you to prioritize them and we ask you to prioritize them in the lines. So that our first responders, and our healthcare providers, and everybody who has difficulty to get to doctor’s offices can utilize this system while we bring all the other traditional systems that you are used to, and have availability for you online over the next few days and weeks. So thank you. Thank you for constantly reminding us how important it’s a response of all of America for Americans. All of America, for Americans. It’s a privilege to be part of this solution and be part of this team. And again, I want to close by recognizing the Commission Corps. I’m not sure they had anything but pizza to eat for the last two days… Donuts. All right. Don’t follow their guidance.
