<01:09:31>
Let me just follow up with that because I think, as I discussed before, we had great… I just want to thank all the epidemiologist and scientists out there who worked with us over the last four weeks on models. Many came forward and really supported us. Right now we’re in talks with a whole series of universities. We have the most brilliant scientist in the world, in our universities in state after state, some of them public health universities, some of them basic science.
<01:10:01>
All of them have received NIH grants for HIV or other development of assays in the past. I’ve talked to a lot of them over the last few days to really ask them to develop these simple ELISA tests that could be used rapidly in their health care centers. Because immediately, it’s easy to do. We’ve all developed ELISA’s, so in a day or two, after development, they could screen their entire hospital. I think that would be very reassuring to the healthcare workers who have been on the front line. We worry about them every day. And so I’ve really called on every university and every state to develop ELISAs.
<01:10:40>
You can buy the antigens and the controls online and really work to test entire healthcare communities in your states and support them that way. At the same time, we worked on in sub-Saharan Africa on what we call dry blood spots. So we’re looking at, could you use that in a community while we work on the point of care tests, where you just dot blood onto this paper and then can go into the lab and be analyzed. That would allow us to look in nursing homes and other long term care facilities immediately.
<01:11:13>
And then finally we’ve reached out to the developers of the rapid test, the ones who developed it for malaria, the ones that developed them for HIV. It’s exactly the same concept and process to ask them to rapidly develop these tests because I think we owe it to the frontline healthcare providers, not only to provide them RNA test, but many of them have been on the front line now for four weeks, may have become exposed. We now know there’s asymptomatic. And, I think, really being able to tell them the peace of mind that would come from knowing you already were infected. You have antibody, you’re safe from reinfection 99.9% of the time.
<01:11:52>
And so this I think would be very reassuring to our frontline healthcare workers. And our universities can do that by Friday. So I’m putting that challenge out to them to really work on that and do that. That’s what we did in the early days. We had a ELISA’s up and running within days of having the antigen. And so this is what’s really possible. So we’re not waiting. We’re asking for help now.
Reporter 8: <01:12:17>
So potentially this could happen soon, even within this month- <crosstalk 01:12:18>.
<01:12:20>
It could happen soon, within this month, if the university help us. Absolutely.
Reporter 9: <01:12:25>
<crosstalk 01:12:25> Mr. President, on Florida, Governor DeSantis says that he spoke with you before sharing his statement-
