<35:10>
No, I don’t want you to do that, but I will. So Tedros is really an outstanding person. I’ve known him from the time that he was the minister of health of Ethiopia. Obviously, over the years, anyone who says that the WHO has not had problems, has not been watching the WHO. But I think under his leadership, they’ve done very well. He has been all over this. I was on the phone with him a few hours ago leading a WHO call.
<35:39>
No, I’m not talking about China. You asked me about Tedros.
<35:48>
I can’t comment on that, because I don’t have any viewpoint into it. I don’t even know what your question is.
<55:10>
Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to spend a couple of minutes telling you a little bit about some information that I got on our weekly call that we have at least once a week with the WHO, which is led by Dr. Tedros and Mike Ryan, who is the point man there to give us some information. And in that regard, I want to apologize for my curt response to you when you asked me about the China deal because I shouldn’t have done that. That’s not my style. But what I really wanted to say is that my job is that I’m a scientist. I’m a physician. And I’m a public health person and I don’t like to get involved in that stuff. So anyway, getting back to the WHO. So we learned some really interesting information because obviously the other countries like China and others have had been hit prior that we did.
<55:55>
One of the things that was striking to me, and I just throw it out because it’s something that we will face, we’re not facing it now, but we will face. Our Chinese colleagues are very concerned because they went through the entire cycle of the curve to come down and they have very, very few cases. But what they’re starting to see as they’re relaxing the constraints on travel, that they’re getting imported cases and they wanted to warn us that when we get successful, make sure you very carefully examine how you’re going to release the constraints on inputs.
<56:34>
So I know we’re going to be successful in putting this on the control, but I think we’re going to have to remember, we don’t want to import cases in. That’s the first thing for today. The second thing that was important is that it was something that Dr. Birx mentioned. And that is when you look at the inflection of the curves, we now have multiple different countries that have gone through various phases of their individual outbreaks, and you could learn something from them.
<57:02>
And you could learn something from them about where you are in your own outbreak. For example, when China went up, what happened is they just didn’t turn around. They went from going to, I’ll just take an arbitrary number, 500 new cases a day. The next day it was 1000 cases, then 1500 and then 2000, but once the number of new cases each day starts to flatten out, that’s when you get to that point where the inflection goes down. So, things we want to look for, the things that Dr. Birx had mentioned, that doesn’t mean you declare victory when it does that, but you know you’re at least on the way to where you want to go, and I think that’s really very important.
<57:45>
The third and final thing that I think gets back to the question that many of you in the audience have asked of us is about would this possibly become a seasonal cyclic thing? And I’ve always indicated to you that I think it very well might. And the reason I say that is that what we’re starting to see now in the southern hemisphere, in southern Africa, and in the southern hemisphere countries, is that we’re having cases that are appearing as they go into their winter season, and if in fact they have a substantial outbreak, it will be inevitable that we need to be prepared that we’ll get a cycle around the second time.
<58:25>
What does that mean for us in what we’re doing? It totally emphasizes the need to do what we’re doing in developing a vaccine, testing it quickly, and trying to get it ready so that we’ll have a vaccine available for that next cycle. In addition, to do the randomized controlled trials of drugs, so that we will have a menu of drugs that we have shown to be effective and shown to be safe, because I know we’ll be successful in putting this down now, but we really need to be prepared for another cycle, and what we’re doing I believe will prepare us well. Thank you.
<01:05:58>
I’m sorry, what <crosstalk 01:05:58>?
<01:06:08>
Well, I mean, you would only recommend that under desperate situations if you don’t have any masks, but what we’re seeing now as you’ve heard, is a rather significant inflow of masks that are coming in that are going to be available. I mean, obviously if you don’t have a mask and you need a mask and it’s appropriate for you to wear it, you do what you can, but I don’t see that now as a necessity given what’s going on right now.
