<47:51>
Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I’m going to just take off from where I was at this podium a few days ago. To reiterate some of the things that the Vice President said, but to connect the dots from where we were, where we are now, and where I think we’re going to be. So, you remember a couple of weeks ago when we talked about the fact that we were going to have a really bad week because the deaths, particularly driven by the situation in New York, were going to get worse and worse. But yet, as that was happening, we were starting to see some turnaround, some flattening, and some coming down. As you’ve heard from Dr. Birx, and will likely hear more, that is continuing. What has happened is that the mitigation that we put in with the first 15 days, and then the 30 day mitigation program of physical distancing, worked. It got us to where we are today. It is a successful formula. It is the basis for our being able to say that we can now think seriously about reopening America. And for that reason we put together a carefully thought out and, I believe, well delineated and described program for opening up America again. And you know what it is, it’s the guidelines that we announced a few days ago. Those very guidelines are based on a version of the successful formula that got us to where we are.
<49:26>
So what I’m trying to say, is that the program is not one that is going to be, “Turn the lights on in America, we’re finished.” We’re not. We have to proceed in a very careful, measured way. And if you look at the guidelines, they are careful and they are measured. There are certain checkpoints, before you can even think about going into a Phase One. And then things relax a little as you go into Phase Two. And relax a little, and you go into Phase Three. Now we live in a big country and it’s heterogeneous, and there are different dynamics of outbreaks in different-
<50:03>
And it’s heterogeneous and there are different dynamics of outbreaks in different parts of the country. So, the speed with which one can go from one to another, at the point at which you can even begin to think about the phase, is going to different. So, the one thing that I know, the urge we all have to get out there and get it over with. Let’s get back to normal, for a lot of good reasons because there’s a lot of suffering, economic and otherwise in this country because of that. But again, as I’ve pleaded early on weeks ago, I plead with the American public, with the governors, with the mayors, for the people with responsibility. Although, I know one has the need to leapfrog over things, don’t do that. Do it in a measured way. This is a successful formula. The problem is if we don’t do that, there is a likelihood that we’ll have a rebound. And the one way not to reopen the economy is to have a rebound that we can’t take care of. So, please again, let me just close by pleading with the American public in general and those who are responsible leaders to carefully consider how we get back to normal. Thank you.
<51:24>
As I’VE said before here, when you look at an outbreak, it’s two dynamic forces opposing each other. If you leave the virus to its own devices, it will take off if you do nothing to stop it. If you put into place the kinds of things that we talk about. First, containment and then hopefully you never get to mitigation but containment is important. Those two forces are going to determine whether you’re going to have a big outbreak. So, what Dr. Redfield was saying first of all, is that we will have coronavirus in the Fall. I am convinced of that because of the degree of transmissibility that has the global nature. What happens with that will depend on how we’re able to contain it when it occurs. And what we’re saying is that in the Fall we will be much better prepared to do the containment compared to what happened to us this winter. Now, the complicating issue is that unlike the syndromic and influenza-like observances that we have, that you could pick it up by clinically what’s happening. It’s going to get complicated by influenza season. And I believe that’s what Dr. Redfield was saying, that is going to be complicated. So, whether or not it’s going to be big or small is going to depend on our response, and that’s what I think people sometimes have misunderstanding. Nobody can predict what is going to happen with an outbreak, but you can predict how you’re going to respond to it. And that’s really very important.
<53:23>
There will be coronavirus in the Fall. If we do, which we won’t, but let’s take an imaginary period. We say, okay, coronavirus, forget about it. We’re not going to do anything about it. It will take off. That’s what viruses do, but that’s not what’s going to happen. We are going to respond to it to not allow it to do that.
<53:55>
Well, if I were advising the governor, I would tell him that he should be careful and I would advise him not to just turn the switch on and go because there is a danger of a rebound and I know there’s that desire to move the head quickly. That’s a natural human nature desire, but going ahead and leapfrogging into phases where you should not be, I would advise him as a health official and as a physician not to do that.
<01:20:22>
Pets?
<01:20:25>
So that question was asked before, but I’d be happy to answer it again. Certainly, animals, pets, can get infected. Big cats in zoos have been reported to be infected with coronavirus. There’s no evidence that the virus is transmitted from a pet to a human. Now obviously, is that impossible? I mean, biologicall anything is possible. But, there is no evidence whatsoever, that we’ve seen from an epidemiological standpoint, that pets can be transmitters within the household. So, it’s not surprising. I mean, we… When you have viruses that can infect multiple species, isolating it from an animal doesn’t necessarily mean the animal is transmitting it.
<01:21:12>
Yeah. Well, that’s the lion <inaudible 01:21:13>.
<01:21:15>
It probably happened… I don’t know, Mr. President. But I would imagine that one of the zookeepers probably had an asymptomatic infection, took care of the animal, gave him some food, touched them or whatever, and that’s how he got it.
<01:23:31>
Yes. Go for it, boss.
<01:31:22>
Here I am.
<01:31:30>
At the NIH? Absolutely not.
<01:31:46>
What is he going to be doing at the NIH?
<01:31:54>
No, I can’t… I don’t really think I can comment on somebody’s relative gifts. I mean, he’s going to be at the NIH and he’s going to be responsible, from what I hear. Again, this is what I’ve heard, that he’s going to be responsible for the development of diagnostics, which is very important. The NIH is going to be involved in trying to develop new generation diagnostics, which we feel is going to be very important for the future of being able to facilitate the kinds of things that now are sometimes problematic.
