<27:07>
Thank you Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. We’re going to go through these quickly because I know you have them and many of you have already spoken to them on television. Next slide, please. This is a very important slide. It talks about the gatekeeping on the gatekeeping criteria to moving into phase one. It’s very much related to what you just saw about influenza-like illness.
<27:33>
And the United States has been tracking influenza-like illness is through the Centers of the Disease Control for years. Both the state and public health officials are used to watching this. County health officials are used to watching it, and frankly, every family around the United States knows how to access this on the CDC website in order to get up to date information to the communities.
<27:55>
It also looks at a syndromic emergency room type visits. Again, housed at the CDC, and really is our surveillance program that can be utilized for a lot of different illnesses, but in this case will be utilized for respiratory diseases. In addition, we are tracking the number of cases and it must have a downward trajectory for 14 days, as well as the influenza-like illness and the syndromic illnesses. And a downward trajectory and the number of positive tests with persistence of high levels of testing.
<28:26>
For the hospitals, it’s to ensure that we can treat all patients without resorting to any crisis care, and ensuring that there’s a robust testing program in place for at risk healthcare workers, including front line responders with the emerging antibody tests. Next slide. Now, just to show you what this looks like. So what the CDC did for me under the direction of Bob Redfield was to chart what would the syndromic illnesses were reporting throughout the early part of March.
<28:58>
And you can see in New Orleans, respiratory diseases were starting to be seen in the emergency room. That is the red line. The cases are shown in the dark blue line. The gray mountain is testing, and underneath that is the blue mountain of positives. And you can see that the early alert was present from the emergency room about early respiratory disease. You can see it predated the cases. So throughout the summer, when we do not have flu to contaminate this picture, we’ll be able to follow the syndromic pattern city by city, county by county, community by community, state by state.
<29:39>
Next slide. In addition, the CDC has the influenza-like illness net distributed throughout the United States. Very useful in the winter time. That first peak is influenza B in the red. That’s this season. I showed you all this seasons here, so you could see the seasons as they are displayed. The first peak is influenza B, second peak is influenza A, and then you can see the coronavirus. And you can see its decline, and it’s declining towards baseline. This will allow us, again, city by city, community by community, state by state, to look for variations in an early response mode in those localities that I described.
<30:24>
Next slide. So hopefully you see that we’ve brought on CDC and their amazing talent of individuals at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and all of their abilities to this response, and also to the surveillance that we need in this response. But I want to call your attention to the third bullet on this graphic. So we’re tracking those two pieces that I described. But the third bullet is about setting up Sentinel Surveillance sites to be able to distinguish and find asymptomatic individuals, individuals that you’ve heard about that may be either presymptomatic or asymptomatic throughout their entire disease course.
<31:05>
We want to be able to find them in communities of particular vulnerability. So we’ll be doing Sentinel Surveillance throughout nursing homes, throughout inner city federal clinics, throughout indigenous populations, to really be able to find early alerts of asymptomatic individuals in the community and both for the syndromic cases that are tested, the flu influenza-like cases, and the asymptomatic cases doing contact tracing again with support from the Centers for Disease Control, working with each state and local government.
<31:39>
In addition, we want to make sure that all the healthcare facilities have adequate personal protective devices and the equipment to handle the surge, and to ensure the ICU can handle increased capacity. We want every state to have a plan for the health and safety of its workers in critical industries, and to protect the health and safeties of those living in high risk facilities, including senior care facilities as we discussed with Sentinel Surveillance, but also additional surveillance.
<32:10>
When we talked with all of the states that had not had a major metro outbreak, their Sentinel Surveillances picked up always the first cases in nursing homes. And so this is a very much a big focus of the plan moving forward. I won’t go into the rest of the details on this slide, but there’s quite a bit of detail on the expectations of every state and local government.
<32:33>
Next slide. You’ll recognize this slide. Next slide, please. You’ll recognize this slide, it’s what we’ve been talking about in the 15 and 30 days to prevent the spread. It’s continuing those in critical hand-washing, our sanitizer, avoiding touching your face at all times, disinfecting surfaces, using face covering while in public, following state and local guidelines, and critically staying home if you are sick. I know a lot of people go to the workplace when they are feeling ill. You know when you’re feeling ill. It won’t get better by going to work, so we’re asking again for people to stay home when they’re sick.
<33:16>
Next slide is for employers. To ensure that there can be social distancing and protective equipment, temperature checks, use of disinfectant in high traffic areas including break rooms, and ensuring that there’s no non-essential business travel, and then monitoring for any symptomatic individuals in the workplace. And again, if you become ill at work, to immediately to go home. And ensure that there’s contact tracing of all the individuals that become sick.
<33:46>
I’m going to go the through the phases very quickly, but you have the details. Phase one. Again, you have to go through those gating criterias related to 14 days of decreasing evidence of illness and decreasing testing despite adequate testing. So phase one begins with all vulnerable individuals, including those with co-morbidities, continuing to shelter in place, and ensuring that those that first go out into the public are not those that are most vulnerable to bad outcomes in this disease. And then ensuring that we continue to do six feet maximum physical distancing in public spaces, continuing to avoid large gatherings, and all non-essential travel for the employers.
<34:29>
Next slide. Again, if a vulnerable population needs to return to work and cannot be teleworking, there should be special accommodations for all vulnerable populations as well as options for teleworking. We believe every employee should encourage work return in phases from 20% or 25% to 40% to 50%. And again, minimize all non-essential travel.
<34:57>
Phase one continued. Next slide. If the schools are already closed, they should remain closed. All visits to senior living facilities and hospitals should be continued to be prohibited. Large venues including sit down dining can only be operated under strict physical distancing protocols and maintaining those six feet. Gyms could open if again adhere to strict physical distancing, and elective surgeries can resume on an outpatient basis.
<35:27>
Phase two. Next slide. Next slide. Again, you have to go through the criteria again of a continuation of another 14 day decline. Among those criterias that were in the gating. Again, we’re asking for all vulnerable individuals shelter in place. We did not put a timeline on any of the phases. We want the governors with the data that they have, community by community, to be setting up those timelines. Again, we’re asking for the public to continue to maximize physical distance. However, we increased social settings to be able to now have 50 individuals and nonessential travel can resume.
<36:09>
Next slide. This is for the employers. We still would like to encourage telework and the common areas should remain close or be physically distance. All nonessential travel for employees can kind of resume and then again special accommodations for vulnerable.
<36:28>
Next slide. This should be a relief to many households that have small children. Schools, day cares, and camps can reopen in phase two. Visits to senior living facilities however, should remain and hospitals prohibited. Large venues can operate, but solely under moderate physical distancing, and elective surgeries can resume on an outpatient and inpatient basis.
<36:54>
Phase three. And so phase three I won’t go through in detail, which is essentially returning to our new normal with all of the what we talked about through all phases. Continuing the good hygiene practices, continuing the respect for spaces between individuals. Because we know that we still have an issue with asymptomatic spread.
<37:18>
I do believe with this plan that we’re both confronting the issue of finding symptomatic individuals through our networks with early alert as well as those who come and present to different hospitals and emergency room with testing and contact tracing, but critically have put in place what we believe is a safety net through asymptomatic Sentinel Surveillance that is centered around our most vulnerable groups between nursing homes and native, our Native American and indigenous populations and our inner city groups that we know may be in multigenerational households and have unique risk. I’ll stop there, Mr. President.
<57:38>
Dr. Fauci and I will do it together. That’s why I wanted to put up the syndromic and the influenza-like illness piece because what is key in this is the early alerts and getting in there before they even know they have a problem. And I think CDC has been remarkable in building these platforms, Dr. Redfield integrated them, so they’re all on the same website. If you look at COVID-19, you go into cases, you can find all of the data and the beauty of it is the states are used to utilizing that through flu season. So, the testing and contract tracing and Dr. Redfield will be putting people in every single state to make sure that CDC is standing beside the state and local health officials to make sure that all of those cases are immediately identified and contact traced.
<58:28>
I think what’s new and what’s really critical is this constant Sentinel surveillance for asymptomatic individuals in communities that we know are particularly vulnerable and that hasn’t been done in flu before. And I think that’s going to be the added dividend that’s really focused on who is most vulnerable and how do we get the fastest alert by generally screening people without symptoms. So, people who are just coming to the clinic will be screened for COVID-19 and we do have enough testing capacity to do both that surveillance piece as well as the diagnostic piece and contact tracing.
<01:11:26>
Yeah, so I mean you’ve heard me talk about tests for a while from the podium and I think what has happened over the last several weeks is hospitals and clinics that could move to the more point of care test move to those point of care test. And what its left is an amazing array of capacity that exists in the country for at least a million more tests per week. So we have a whole team working lab by lab to see what it would take to turn on all of those labs that aren’t running the pieces of equipment now. So you see in the system, I just said to you there’s a million more tests per week that we have tests sitting there and equipment sitting there and now we have to really deal with each single lab to really figure out what they need. And I just want to thank administrative Seema Verma who went through with us and thanks to the lab directors, they really explained to us highly technical difficulty to run some of these big pieces of equipment.
<01:12:29>
Because you have to alloy clot the samples, you have to centrifuge, you have to put them on the machine, takes a tech full time. At $50 a test it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full time. So at $100 a test it is. So those are the kinds of changes we have to make bit by bit by bit. But that alone doubles our testing capacity per week. So we’re committed to work with laboratories to answer every one of their issues with the state and local governments. And I think frankly every conversation I have and the governors will say I need 5,000 people tested. And I say, well at the university of X there are 6,700 tests waiting for you. So it’s more of making sure that every governor and every public health official knows exactly where every lab is and where the test are so we can create with them a real understanding. So all these tests can be run. So yes there is twice the capacity right now.
