<49:05>
You know, it’s an excellent question. And it’s why all of the modelers, and I really want to thank them again, they’re reevaluating all of their models in light of the level of the impact of the mitigation. Remember, none of us had really been through this before, so when we modeled school closures, and distancing, and staying at home, and all of these pieces, that had never really come into the model before. They’re working on that very diligently now. Of course, just to be clear, we won’t know how valid the models are until we move all the way through the epidemic.
<49:39>
what we’re triangulating right now, and instead of working on our R not, we’re looking at testing and triangulating, testing, positive cases, hospitalizations, ICUs and, of course, the recoveries, because that’s also very important to us. I think it’s very important that the American people know that there are equal number of States with less than 5% positives despite high levels of testing. So there are States that are mitigating and making this work. There are also the States that you know of, the 18 States that have the larger outbreaks, and we’re watching them very carefully, triangulating for them all of the information to ensure that clients who come to the hospital are cared for.
<50:27>
And then there are states in the middle that we’re trying to figure out are they changing or not. Each of those states, and each of those epidemics within those states, may have a different R value, and that is what we’re trying to figure out. It’s very variable on each of these factors. But the bottom line is, and I think going into this weekend, it’s really important for the American people to know this, Spain and Italy are moving through this. They are seeing their number of cases drop, they’re seeing the number of people in hospitals drop. We are about, on our models and on the actual data, about 12 days behind them.
<51:08>
At the same time we see in the United States really good case studies of the impact that Washington state, of California, and then a series of smaller States where we’re trying to learn from them how to do surveillance. And with these new HHS Abbott ID now kits, and I just want to thank Admiral Giroir for getting them out, being able to look at testing in a more comprehensive way, so we can be doing surveillance and mitigation simultaneously so we can answer that very question. It’s going to be very difficult to answer at this moment across the United States, because each Metro cluster is on a different pathway as they move through the epidemic. And I think we just really ought to emphasize through, because we see Italy, we see Spain moving through. And we hope to be in that same position.
<52:05>
At the same time, as the president said, he’s concerned about every single person that is succumbing to this virus. We all are. And that’s why we’re making sure that in this triangulation, they’re tracking minute-by-minute. When we say FEMA and HHS is tracking minute-by-minute the ventilator, hospital, and ICU bed need, that’s exactly what’s happening. And also being flexible and responsive. To have DOD take a thousand healthcare providers out of their medical corps is a very big deal. I was in the medical corps for 29 years. We never did that. So this is saying we respect and understand the importance and value of the American lives and doing that. But the R values will be variable by state.
<01:26:40>
<01:27:27>
So by the predictions that are in that healthdata.org, they are predicting in those three hotspots, all of them hitting together in the next six to seven days.
<01:27:47>
You can go to the website. It’s variable. Each one of those communities is different. But you know where New York is, how much their mortality has been, and you know what we’re seeing today are the people who were infected two or three weeks ago. If mitigation in New York worked and we believe it is working, the cases are going to start to go down, but the mortality will be a lag behind that. Because of the comorbidities and other conditions. So that’s why all of the predictions are that this next week, and I think we said this last Sunday when we talked about the charts, and it’s difficult. We tried to prepare the American people to understand that as much as you go up, you have to come down the other side because coming down as a reflection of the cases that were coming in before.
<01:28:46>
I’d rather not say a number, but the numbers are available if you go to the website. I mean, you can see that there’s several hundreds per day in New York, and I think Governor Como has talked about that increasing still into the five, six, 700 range a day. So that’s very concerning to us. We again applaud the healthcare workers who are doing every single thing humanly possible to save more lives, and we are ensuring on a ventilator by ventilator day by day to get them there so that we can say, and we can be there when they need it. Because we are supposed to be that group that comes in after all of the resources are exhausted, and we really applaud what Oregon did, and we really applaud what the governor is doing about moving between the states, between the different counties to bring them to New York because that’s what’s needed today. A different place will be needed tomorrow.
<01:30:00>
We’re watching them because they are starting to go on that upside of the curve. We’re hoping and believing that if people mitigate strongly, the work that they did over the last two weeks will blunt that curve, and they won’t have the same upward slope and peak that New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and part of Rhode Island are having. So the next two weeks are extraordinarily important, and that’s why I think you’ve heard from Dr. Fauci, from myself, from the President and the Vice President, that this is the moment to do everything that you can on the presidential guidelines. This is the moment to not be going to the grocery store and not going to the pharmacy, but doing everything you can to keep your family and your friends safe. That means everybody doing the six feet distancing, washing your hands.
<01:41:36>
The same pattern as Europe.
<01:41:50>
No. Tomorrow, I’ll bring you all the graphs back so you can see it.
