<05:42>
Thank you, Mr. President for your leadership. Thank you, Mr. Vice President for your leadership of the task force. I’m very proud of FDA staff’s work in the last few months to expedite the availability of testing in this country. I’m also incredibly appreciative of private industries and willingness to work with us quickly to develop and distribute those tests. We’ve had a substantial addition to testing with the authorization of point of care tests, especially the Abbott point of care tests, which the president has pulled out of the box. A point of care test is a test that gives you a result where you’re getting care.
<06:18>
This is truly a patient centered approach; whether it’s the doctor’s office, a hospital and emergency room, urgent care center, or a drive by testing site. Just like tests for flu or strep where go to the doctors, you could get the test done, you can get an answer within minutes of having this test done. Now, with those tests being approved for Abbott and for others, these are available around the country. They’re planning to scale up the number of tests that can be put out throughout the country over the next month and patients can get the answer within as little as 15 to five minutes. And then of course, an appropriate plan of treatment can be given.
<06:57>
We had FDA are working quickly with avid as well on other testing approaches and normally these tests take months to develop. I was on the phone today with the Abbott CEO. He told me that normally this is a 9 to 12 month approach to developing a point of care test. They did this in collaboration with FDA and US government within weeks. Abbott has shared that they will be delivering these tests tomorrow and then we’ll be ramping up. Just have to emphasize one thing, the most innovative and safe products come from the private sector, in partnership with government, taking an all hands on deck approach just like in this case. And the other point here is that Abbott and FDA work together to make sure that we had a fast, reliable and accurate test to market. Thank you.
