<28:04>
Thank you, Mr. President. I’m going to speak about hydroxychloroquine and the efforts around that. Just a preface, I’d like to echo what the president said about the American people, and the resiliency, and the just terrific work. Mitigation is such an important part of our fight against the COVID-19 virus. Last week as the president said, we issued an emergency use authorization to allow the donated hydroxychloroquine to come into the country and enter the general circulation. We are prioritizing this drug to come in for clinical trials, also to general use for physicians because, as you know, physicians, based upon their interaction with the patients, their assessment of the risks and benefits, can write a prescription for hydroxychloroquine if they think it’s appropriate for that patient. Being a physician, we do this all the time, and that assessment needs to be done between a patient and a doctor. And then the third portion is we wanted to make sure that these drugs were in the supply chain so that people who have them or need them for the other indications, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, had them available. So that was the purpose of the emergency use authorization.
<29:15>
One other thing I’d like to mention is that we, on Friday, stood up a formal convalescent plasma program. We have a great deal of enthusiasm for that. There are some reports that this is of benefit to patients in other countries who have had the COVID-19 virus. And what this means is taking plasma from patients who’ve had the virus and who have recovered, and transferring the immunity, the immunoglobulins if you will, the immunity from that person to someone who’s sick. And we’re, hopefully, expanding that across the country. The Red Cross is involved in that program and I think it shows a great promise. It needs to be studied like other things, but just like I said before, it provides hope. We don’t want to provide false hope, but definitely hope. Thank you.
<59:06>
So this is a situation where someone who’s recovered from the virus doesn’t have the virus in their system at all. You can take plasma, and this is a pretty routine procedure. You can actually donate a couple times a week, couple times a month, frankly, and give that plasma.
<59:21>
That plasma contains the proteins in the blood that have the antibodies against the virus. You can take that, process it, and then give it to someone who’s ill. And so that allows you to transfer the immunity. Doesn’t have to be matched by family or anything like that.
<59:35>
Since last Tuesday, the Tuesday before last, we’ve allowed academic centers and other laboratories and hospitals around the country to do this on a compassionate use basis. What we did was we pulled this together in what’s called an expanded access program and run it through the Red Cross because they’ve got the greatest system and capacity for doing this. And this allows us to scale up so that when people get sick, we can actually have these donated plasma packs given to the patients who are sick.
<01:00:07>
So we’ve started with the Red Cross in this program. We made an announcement yesterday. We are planning to actually scale that up and we’ll have more information this week, because we want to make sure we have the systems in place. It’s a superb question.
<01:18:38>
We think it’ll be a tool.
<01:18:39>
<crosstalk 01:18:34>.
<01:18:39>
We think it will be a tool to help us get people back to work. It’ll be additional information because, as you know, if you have an antibody, that means you are exposed and have recovered from it. That, with the information about diagnosis, should help.
<01:19:00>
So as you know, a couple of weeks ago we provided a great deal of regulatory flexibility around this. A lot of great developers have been working on this. Dr. Burkes put a call out to the academic labs around the country to do this, and we’ve been working very closely with a number of manufacturers, so we think that it can be scaled up relatively quickly.
