<17:29>
Thank you very much Mr. President, Deb. I want to just talk very briefly about two or three things. First, the issue of testing and how that has really changed the complexion of the approach that we’re going to be able to take. We right now, testing was an issue. We had many questions of testing in this room for a number of times. Now that we literally have hundreds and hundreds of thousands of testing out there, there are a few things that we can do with that.
<17:54>
One of the things is that when we make policy about what we’re going to be doing with the rest of the country, particularly those areas that are not hotspots, we need to know what the penetrance of infection is there, so we need to put a light on those dark spots that we don’t know. We have to act policy-wise on data and we’re going to be getting more data, a lot more data.
<18:16>
The other thing is that the areas of the country that are not hotspots, that are not going through the terrible ordeal that New York and California and Washington state are going through, they still have a window of significant degree of being able to contain. In other words, when you test, you find somebody, you isolate them, you get them out of circulation, and you do the contact tracing. When you have a big outbreak, it’s tough to do anything but mitigation. We have an opportunity now that we have the availability of testing to do that, so you’re going to be hearing more about how we can inform where we’re going, particularly because we have the ability to test.
<18:53>
The second thing is, I just want to reiterate what Dr. Birx said about New York. It’s a very serious situation. They’ve suffered terribly through no fault of their own, but what we’re seeing now is that understandably, people want to get out of New York. They’re going to Florida, they’re going to Long Island, they’re going to different places. The idea, if you look at the statistics, it’s disturbing about one per thousand of these individuals are infected. That’s about 8 to 10 times more than in other areas, which means when they go to another place for their own safety, they’ve got to be careful, monitor themselves, if they get sick, bring it to the attention of a physician, get tested. Also, the idea about self isolating for two weeks will be very important because we don’t want that to be another seating point to the rest of the country wherever they go.
<19:45>
And then thoroughly just one, one just comment about drugs and the testing of drugs. You know, you heard yesterday about drugs being out there that physicians on an off-label way can prescribe it to give people hope of something that hasn’t been definitively proven to work, but that might have some hope. I don’t want anybody to forget that simultaneously with our doing that, we’re also doing randomized clinical trials on a number of candidates. You’ve heard about candidates, but there are others in the pipeline where we’ll be able to design the study, and over a period of time, particularly since we have so many infections, we’ll be able to determine definitively, are these safe and are they effective? We’re talking about Remdesivir, other drugs, Immune Sera, Convalescent Serum, Monoclonal antibodies. All of these are in the pipeline now, queuing up to be able to go into clinical trial, so I’ll stop there and <inaudible 00:09:39>.
<36:28>
That’s really very flexible. We just had a conversation with the president in the oval office talking about, you can look at a date, but you got to be very flexible and a literally day by day and week by week basis. You need to evaluate the feasibility of what you’re trying to do. And John, you asked for what kind of metrics, what kind of data. When you look at the country, obviously no one is going to want to tone down things where you see what’s going on in a place like New York City. That’s just, you know, good public health practice and common sense, but the country is a big country and there are areas of the country and I refer to this in my opening remarks, that we really need to know more about what the penetrance is there.
<37:12>
So if we do the kind of testing that we’re doing and testing will always be associated by identification, isolation, and contact tracing. And you find after a period of time that there are areas that are very different from other areas of the country. You may not want to essentially treat it as just one force for the entire country, but look at flexibility in different areas.
<37:35>
So I think people might get the misinterpretation. You just going to lift everything up and even somebody’s going like that, that’s not going to happen. It’s going to be looking at the data and what we don’t have right now that we really do need is we need to know what’s going on in those areas of the country where there isn’t an obvious outbreak. Is there something underneath the surface that says, wait a minute, you better be careful and really clamp down or what looks there that you don’t really have to be as harsh as you are in other areas. So it’s looking at information that up to this point, John, we never had, so it’s a flexible situation.
