<13:06>
Thank you, Mr. President, for inviting me here today and to honor and let people know the work that Tunnel to Towers Foundation is doing. My siblings and I, we started the foundation in honor of my brother, New York City firefighter. On September 11, 2001, strapped 60 pounds of gear on his back and ran through the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, which is almost two miles long, and I know you know that. It’s almost two miles long and he come out and run up West street, went into the South Tower, up those stairs, and while saving people’s life, he gave up his own. Since then, we’ve been honoring our military and first responders ever since. We built specially adapted smart homes for our country’s most catastrophically injured service members. We deliver mortgage free homes for gold star families and fallen first responder families who die in the line of duty, who leave young families behind.
<14:01>
Mr. President, when you said that we are at war with an invisible enemy, we couldn’t have been more proud to know that we’re doing our job and what we’re supposed to be doing as a local foundation, as a national foundation, to make sure that we take care of the frontline healthcare workers. We follow the teachings of St. Francis of Assisi who said, “Brothers and sisters, while you are here, while you have time, let us do good.” And we know that is our guiding light from the foundation is what we strive to do every single day is to do good and not just in memory of my brother, but all those are perished in 9/11, those who have perished ever since, that have given us this great country, and those frontline healthcare workers who are willing to die for you and me today, who are on that frontline on the battlefield that you often speak about.
<14:57>
And that’s why our foundation has made a commitment. We want America to make a promise to these great Americans who are willing to die for you and me, that if they go out and they give their kids a kiss goodbye and they don’t come home, that we are going to take care of them. I know we will because we are and always have been the greatest country that’s ever existed. Why? Because the goodness and the generosity of America will always take care of the greatness of America. Mr. President, thank you once again for having me here today. God bless you. God bless America and remember; we are only the land of the free because of the brave. Thank you.
