<15:59>
Thank you, Mr. President, Vice President Pence. It’s a pleasure to be here today to speak about some of the work that we’re doing at the Postal Inspection Service to address transnational elder fraud. Protecting our elders and our veterans is one of the highest priorities of our mail fraud program. Especially now, as we start to see fraudsters take advantage of the coronavirus theme to incorporate that into some of their schemes. As Attorney General Barr mentioned, one of our key strategies is to attack the money mules. As he said, the money mules is really how the fraudsters get the money from the US to their overseas accounts. Victims typically send money through the mail or other similar carriers like FedEx and UPS. Sometime they ask the victims to wire transfer the money. And oftentimes we see them asking them to buy gift cards and send it to the money mules. The money mules in turn then send the money overseas. So we see the money mules as a crucial link to disrupt if we want to be effective in this type of fraud.
<16:57>
We’ve had some significant enforcement efforts. We also have some prevention efforts and some private sector engagement. One of our primary strategies, the center of our primary strategy is we partnered with the Department of Justice, as Attorney General Barr mentioned, the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force. We’ve embedded postal inspectors at the Department to work hand in hand with trial attorneys to bring some of these cases to justice. We have 17 field divisions who I’ve asked to collaborate with the 93 US Attorney’s Offices and they’re elder justice coordinators on the elder fraud investigations. And we’ve conducted significant enforcement efforts this past year dealing with the money mules. Just some other stats, we’ve initiated this year over a hundred investigations.
<17:41>
These cases are associated with nearly $450 million in victim losses. We’ve also served over 2,000 unlicensed money transmitter warning letters to suspects and working with the Department of Justice issued 34 civil injunctions. 17 arrests from those cases. We’ve also seized over $650,000. Also, as the Attorney General mentioned, the annual money mule initiative that we work in coordination with the FBI, HSI, the Secret Service, among our other financial partners. In addition to the four indictments he mentioned, law enforcement halted the conduct of more than 600 money mules. So in cases where we didn’t arrest, we served them letters or put them on notice to stop the bad action. Another example of recent success, in November of this past year, a Jamaican national sentenced to over four years in federal prison and ordered to pay over a half million dollars in restitution to elderly lottery scam victims. We’re also holding accountable the money service providers for their role in helping send fraud victim’s funds overseas, companies like Western Union and MoneyGram. Working with the Department of Justice, we’ve had access for a settlement well over a hundred million dollars. Our goal here, Mr. President, is really to try to get some of the money back to the victims. Since March of 2020, working with DOJ and our other federal partners, we’ve returned over $150 million to victims, which was over 109 fraud victims.
<19:16>
Prevention is a big part of our strategy. Obviously we would rather educate, prevent a crime before actually a crime occurs. So we’ve put a lot of resources in coming up with a platform. You can go to our website, we have printed material, and we’re starting to utilize social media working with the Department of Justice. And I’ll just mentioned briefly the last thing I’ll just mention, Mr. President, it’s also we’re engaging the large banks to update their practices and to do their part in preventing elder fraud. I’d like to thank you for providing awareness and making this one of the priorities of the administration. Thank you.
