<35:39>
Mr. President, thank you on behalf of 7,000 small business owners, Wyndham Hotels and Resorts is the world’s largest franchisor, great state of New Jersey, and we have, if I could have the first slide up, remarkably remained open throughout this crisis. Much like Dave and Dunkin’, our hotels here in the United States really never closed. We were serving frontline workers. We were serving the national guard emergency workers and a large part of that had to do, if I could have the next slide, to the support that, and we really have to, the industry has to call out secretary Minutian and you’ve been there for us all along. You’ve listened to us. The PPP Act has been monumental. 95% of our franchisees have applied for either a PPP or an EID alone, and we estimate from the surveys that we’re hearing back, that 80% of them have received one of those and they view it as an absolute lifeline.
<36:45>
So, what Dave said is most important, this is going to be a long recovery, even though we’ve remained open. The most important thing for our franchisees is seeing this amendment to the 75/25 rule, which is in the bill, seeing the expansion of that loan term from two years to five years, I mean, that’s critical for our small business owner. In extending, as the secretary and I were talking earlier, our ability to rehire those employees that we have had to furlough, to be able to bring them back, not have it expire on June 30, but have that continue til the end of the year is critical for us.
<37:28>
We also think the idea of a temporary travel tax to spur leisure travel is important, and we know the administration is in favor of that, and bringing back the full deductability of necessary business expenses to spur business travel would be very, very helpful to opening our country up again, because as Oscar said, as Gary said, just as planes are safe, hotels are safe. They’re safe because we’ve been safe throughout this crisis with again, 90% of our hotels operating at low occupancy. Demand is coming back, but we need those consumers to feel safe and we just thank you for everything that you and the secretary and Congress is doing on this industry’s behalf, because it’s going to be a tough road back.
