<09:27>
Mr. President-
<09:29>
Thank you very much.
<09:30>
Thank you very much for including JP Morgan Chase today. I also just want to start by thanking Treasury and the Small Business Administration. We have been working seven days a week, late into the night in very close partnership to make sure that we could deliver the program. So just a huge thank you to everything that you and your teams have been doing. We’re trying to get the money out to small business owners as quickly as possible and because of that, we’re focusing primarily on our existing customers.
<10:04>
As of about 1:00 today, we’ve had 375,000 requests to apply from small businesses in the United States. That will range plus or minus $40 billion in total loans. To give you a little bit of the sense of the loans that we’ve seen so far today, they tend to be at a minimum end of $4,000 and the largest loan of $2.6 million.
<10:33>
We also… I believe Brian Moynihan mentioned this earlier… working very closely with the SBA to build a regional connection, which I think we’re literally hours away from. That will continue to accelerate the progress that we’re able to make in terms of getting money out to those small businesses and quickly into the economy.
<10:58>
In addition, we continue to lend money aggressively. Revolving credit facilities, so far this year, have increased by $57 billion. We’ve lent an additional $40 billion to consumers and small businesses since the start of this crisis in February. We also announced $50 million in philanthropic support to address the immediate needs of health and longterm economic challenges for small businesses. And today we’re going to announce an additional $150 million of lending capacity to the CDFI’s, that we’ve spoken about today.
<11:43>
And in addition, we spoke about this down at the White House, Mr. President, just a few short weeks ago, we provide, we are providing 90-day payment and interest deferral for credit lines for home loans or auto loans for both consumers and the small businesses. We’re deferring payments. We’re waiving fees. We’ve increased the limits to allow customers to deposit checks electronically to avoid them having to come to a bank branch and have them be able to do that from home. As we speak, in addition to the broad streams that I’ve just articulated around school business, we’re preparing for all of the work that, Mr. President, you have in line for the consumer side of the transaction over the course of the next two to three weeks. So a great deal of technologists are working and preparing <silence 00:03:38>.
