<09:12>
We did.
<09:20>
Sure, I would. I was talking with Dr. Birx about that. And so what we’ve done, we’ve been able to contain the spread of the coronavirus in Texas, but at the same time, we created these surge forces that will go out to regions where there are flare ups, and it’s like putting out a fire out. We have a surge force working in the panhandle in Texas right now up in Amarillo and just North of Amarillo because of an outbreak at a meat packing plant.
<09:47>
And there are several other issues with other meat packing plants in Texas. Basically, there’s only three categories causing any type of outbreak. There are meatpacking plants, there are jails and there are senior centers. And so we have task forces that focus on those three areas. If it weren’t for those three categories, the people in Texas testing positive would be very minimal.
<10:34>
Because of that, we have one of the lowest death rates in the United States of America.
<10:56>
Well there’s different standards used in different communities, however, today I made one thing clear. And that is, as we go through this process of trying to maintain the order in our States, as we are asking the people in our state to comply with these orders, we should not be taking these people and put them behind bars. These people who have spent their life building up a business and being told to shut it down and lose every penny they have. And then if they don’t follow every little fine point of all the rules, they suddenly are subject to arrest, that is wrong. And that’s why I issued another executive order today saying that, in the state of Texas, no one could be put behind bars because they’re not following an executive order. It’s common sense.
<11:50>
She’s free today.
<16:39>
Half of our counties either have no cases, or five or fewer cases.
<21:05>
Give it a year.
<21:23>
It’s good for <crosstalk 00:21:24>.
<21:25>
Good for jobs.
<26:31>
We have learned so much the past few months and we now know first how to go in and contain, but also we now have the resources to go in and to contain it. We’re going into these meat packing facilities. We’re testing everybody or we’ll go into a jail and we’ll test everybody. And we will separate those who test positive from those who test negative. But most importantly, we go into these senior centers because their lives are so vulnerable and we focus on our seniors and we focus on ways to reduce their deaths. And so we now have all of these strategies to make sure
Gov. Greg Abbott: <27:03>
… Their deaths, and so we now have all of these strategies to make sure that we are able to contain any type of outbreak, and that allows the rest of the economy of big states like Texas to continue to go and grow while we manage and contain the outbreaks where they exist.
