<04:15>
Yes, sir. On ventilators now, the good news is that every day the balance that we have in the stockpile, that the country has, continues to grow. Initially it was very scary in that we had a lot of States requesting numbers that could not be supplied. And a lot of you were very helpful at getting the local hospitals in your districts to give the actual data to the federal government, because the president wanted to make sure that anybody in this country who needed a ventilator, would get a ventilator. He saw what was happening in Italy where people were dying in hospitals and not able to get the care they needed, and the president said, “I don’t want that to happen in America. Deploy every resource that we have, get all the intel we have and let’s do our best to try to make it work.” And we were able to make it work, thanks to your leadership.
<04:57>
And then what we were also able to do is use the Defense Production Act, at the president’s urging, and we were able to contract 11 different ventilator companies. Last year America made about 30,000 ventilators. This year we’ll make about 150,000 in a four month period. And so we’re in a place right now where we’re doing well. A lot of our allies, the countries that are friendly with America, are starting to get ventilators from us and we have more than enough to take care of all the American citizens. So it’s been a great success story.
<05:24>
And on testing, the numbers continue to grow. We have all the supplies that we need to do it. We’ve now educated all the governors. We have over 5,000 testing machines in the city. We’ve had the commercial sector, through the public private partnerships that the president had us lead, those have now identified over 5,000 machines. We’ve done DPA on swabs. So we’re making a ton of swabs. We have reagents. We have transport media. We’ve been working with all the governors to help them with the National Guard on how to better collect samples. And so we’re seeing those numbers starting to really rise. And when you look at the number that America’s done relative to any other country, we’re two to three times the next number. So on an absolute basis, the job that you’ve led on that has been absolutely tremendous. And that’s giving the tools to America to start opening up these counties and allowing Americans to get back to work.
<06:30>
Thank you.
