<43:47>
Thank you Mr. Vice President. And thank you for your great leadership on the task force. And thank you to Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci as well. It’s been an honor working with you these past few weeks.
<43:57>
When the Vice President first asked me to help on the task force with different tasks, I asked the President what he expected from the task force and how I can best serve him in the task force. What the President asked is that all of the recommendations that we make be based on data. He wanted us to be very rigorous to make sure that we were studying the data, collecting data. A lot of things in this country were happening very quickly and we want to make sure that we were trying to keep updating our models and making sure that we were making informed decisions and informed recommendations to him based on the data that we were able to collect and put together.
<44:29>
The President wanted to make sure that we had the best people doing the best jobs and making sure that we had the right people focused on all the things that needed to happen to make sure that we can deliver in these unusual times for the American people.
<44:42>
The President also instructed me to make sure that I break down every barrier needed to make sure that the teams can succeed. This is an effort where the government is doing things that the government doesn’t normally do. We’re stretching. We’re acting very quickly and the President wants to make sure that the white house is fully behind the different people running the different lines of effort to make sure that we get everything done in a speed that the President demands.
<45:06>
The President also wanted us to make sure we think outside the box. Make sure we’re finding all the best thinkers in the country. Making sure we’re getting all the best ideas and that we’re doing everything possible to make sure that we can keep Americans safe. And make sure we bring a quick end to this in the best way possible and balance all the different aspects that need to be thought of while we do this.
<45:26>
This truly is a historic challenge. We have not seen something like this in a very, very long time. But I am very confident that by bringing innovative solutions to these hard problems we will make progress.
<45:39>
Today we were briefing the President earlier he asked me to come out and talk a little bit about what we are doing on the supply chain task force which Admiral Polowczyk has been leading and what he’s been very impressed by is the way that we’ve been resourceful to find product all over the world, all over the country. And we are finding ways to solve the different problems.
<45:57>
The President’s been very, very hands on in this. He’s really instructed us to leave no stone unturned. Just very early this morning, I got a call from the President. He told me he was hearing from friends of his in New York that the New York Public Hospital System was running low on critical supply. He instructed me this morning, I called Dr Katz who runs the system.
<46:17>
I asked him which supply was the most supply he was nervous about. He told me it was the N95 masks. I asked what his daily burn was and I basically got that number. Called up Admiral Polowczyk. Made sure that we had the inventory. We went to the President today and earlier today the President called Mayor de Blasio to inform him that we were going to send a month of supply to New York Public Hospital System to make sure that the workers on the front line can rest assured that they have the N95 masks that they need to get through the next month. We’ll be doing similar things with all the different public hospitals that are in the hotspot zones and making sure that we’re constantly in communications with the local communities.
<46:56>
One thing I will say just based on data is that we’ve been getting a lot of data from different governors and from different mayors and from different cities. One thing I’ve seen FEMA do very, very well over the last week or so is now we’re getting real time data from a lot of cities. People who have requests for different products and supplies. A lot of them are doing it based on projections, which are not the realistic projections. The projections change every day as we see the cases, as we see the impacts of The Stop Spread effort that this task force recommended and the President has been pushing forward.
<47:28>
So I do think that we’ll see that hopefully there’ll be impact of that and the task force has been working very hard through the FEMA group with Admiral Polowczyk to make sure that we’re getting the supplies to people before they run out and making sure that we’re doing it in a proper way.
<47:43>
I’d like to just introduce Admiral Polowczyk who before coming to this I guess still is, he’s the Vice Director For Logistics for the Joint Staff. I got a call from one of the senators saying, well, why don’t you put a great military person in charge of the logistics and the supply chain and the Defense Production Act? And I said, well, the President already did that. This is the best man that we have in the country for supplies and logistics. He joined the task force 13 days ago over at FEMA and he’s built a team really at the direction of the Vice President that includes people from FEMA, OMB, the FDA, HHS, The White House, and from everywhere else.
<48:17>
And what they’ve done over the last 13 days has been really extraordinary. We’ve done things that the government has never done before, quicker than they’ve ever done it before. And what we’re seeing now is we found a lot of supplies in the country. We’ve been distributing them where we anticipate there will be needs and also trying to make sure that we’re hitting places where there are needs.
<48:33>
So I can tell you the people in the task force, they’re working day and night. You’ve got a lot of people in the government. We recognize the challenge that America faces right now. We know what a lot of the people on the front lines are facing, the fear that they had that they won’t have the supplies they need. And our goal is to work as hard as we can to make sure that we don’t let them down.
<48:52>
So I just want to thank everybody and with that I’ll introduce Admiral Polowczyk who’s doing an amazing job.
<01:47:54>
Sure. So, the first issue that we’ve been dealing with was really the ventilators. That the number one, number two, and number three from all the states. What we’ve been finding is that people have a lot of these requests based on the models. And what we’ve been trying to do over at FEMA is say to the States, “Well, if you would like ventilators, first look in your states.” For example, in Northern Jersey, they’re going down to Southern Jersey and they’re finding ventilators and trying to relocate them to where they have their hotspots. The second thing that we’ve done is we’ve asked them to survey for alternative ventilators. Dr. Birx spoke before about the anesthesia machines and the ability to convert them to be ventilators. So, we’re asking people to be resourceful inside their states before they come to the federal government. The third thing we’ve been asking states to do is to provide what their daily utilization rates are. So, everyone’s asking for everything.
<01:48:41>
One Congressman got a call from his local hospitals saying, “I need 250 ventilators.” And he said, “Well, you don’t have a COVID patient within four counties. Why do you want 250 ventilators?” And he says, “Well, we just want to be safe. We’re very nervous right now.” So, what you have all over the country is a lot of people are asking for things that they don’t necessarily need at the moment. And the job of FEMA and Admiral Polowczyk has been to try to make sure that we’re getting the real data from the cities, from the states, that we can make real-time allocation decisions based on the data. Right now, what’s happening is a lot of the different cities and states are providing FEMA that information, we’re talking to them daily, they’re updating that information daily, and that’s enabling the federal government to make much more informed decisions on where they position ventilators.
<01:49:26>
You also have a situation where in some states, FEMA allocated ventilators to the states and you have instances where in cities they’re running out, but the state still has a stockpile and the notion of the federal stockpile was, it’s supposed to be our stockpile. It’s not supposed to be state stockpiles that they then use. So, we’re encouraging the states to make sure that they’re assessing the needs, they’re getting the data from their local situations, and then trying to fill it with the supplies that we’ve given them. The same thing with the masks. So, the N95 mask is actually an item that wasn’t used as frequently in the medical profession before this. It was used mostly for diseases. So, speaking to a lot of the doctors and hospital administrators, they would say they used actually a very low percentage of the N95 masks.
<01:50:08>
What the president and the vice president were able to do with Congress was to get the waiver so that you could expand the pool because a lot of N masks were used for the construction industry. So, now there’s a much bigger pool of masks in the country. There was a stockpile. They distributed that based on where they anticipated a lot of the need would go, but a lot of that still is stuck with the states and it hasn’t trickled down to the right places within the state. So, I would just encourage you, when you have governors saying that the federal government hasn’t given them what they need, I would just urge you to ask them, “Well, have you looked within your state to make sure that you haven’t been able to find the resources?” Unlike other countries, a lot of the medical system in America is private. It’s not public, government-controlled.
<01:50:47>
So, you have to get the data from what’s in their state. Look at it in that way, and then make sure that they’re being resourceful in a way to do that. Also ask them what their utilization percentage is, because if one governor’s asking for more ventilators and if the federal government sends them more than they need, the goal here is not to have ventilators sitting in a warehouse where you have another state where you have people who need them. So, what we’re trying to do is make informed data-driven decisions both on ventilators, masks, any other supply we can get to make sure it’s going to the people who need them.
Reporter 3: <01:51:19>
I wonder if you could weigh in on the reports, which I’m sure you’re aware, where unnamed White House officials have described your role as being something of running a shadow task force. How do you describe your role? How do you describe the qualifications you bring to your role?
<01:51:32>
Yeah. I would just say very simply, look, the president asked the vice president to run the task force. The vice president asked me to assist. I’ve been serving really at the direction of the vice president. He’s asked me to get involved in different projects. The vice president and I speak probably sometimes five, 10 times a day, but everything that I’m doing is that the direction of the vice president. If some people are talking to you, that means they’re probably not informed as to what’s going on. But I can assure you that I’m speaking with Dr. Birx, Dr. Fauci, the vice president, and the president multiple times a day to make sure that I’m accomplishing and focusing on the objectives that the vice president deems a priority.
Reporter 2: <01:52:12>
Jared, a follow-up on the ventilators-
<01:52:33>
Well, that’s not the criteria. You have the states basically putting in the request and they’re giving us their utilization percentages. So, it’s a very simple formula. The states should know how many ventilators they have in their states. And by the way, some governors you speak to are senators and they don’t know what’s in their state. Some governors I’ll speak to and they’ll know to the number how many ventilators they have in their state because that’s the first thing a good manager will do. What a lot of the voters are seeing now is that when you elect somebody to be a mayor or governor or president, you’re trying to think about who will be a competent manager during the time of crisis. This is a time of crisis and you’re seeing certain people are better managers than others.
<01:53:11>
So, what I would say is that the way that the federal government’s trying to allocate it as they’re trying to make sure a, you have your data. Don’t ask us for things when you know that when you don’t know what you have in your own state. Just because you’re scared, you ask your medical professionals and they don’t know, you have to take inventory of what you have in your own state and then you have to be able to show that there’s a real need. So, we pre-positioned a lot of things because most governors off the bat didn’t know what they needed, but FEMA has a joint command with Admiral Polowczyk, Admiral Giroir and Pete Gaynor, where every couple of hours when their requests come in, they evaluate the request, they all vote on the requests, and then if there’s something that they want to elevate to the task force, they bring it to the vice president to make a recommendation. <crosstalk 01:53:53>
