<27:52>
Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon everyone. I started off the week talking about the challenges that lie ahead and I want to finish the week just by reiterating what you’ve heard. Mitigation works. It definitively and quantitatively is working and I want to say thank you to America for your efforts to help flatten the curve and to save lives.
<28:13>
But at the President’s direction, yesterday, I met with 2,000 Hispanic leaders from their communities. And today, the Vice President led a phone call that I was on with hundreds of African American leaders, including the Reverend Jesse Jackson, including Derek Johnson of the NAACP, including the National Medical Association and the Black Nurses Association to talk about some of the alarming trends we’re observing regarding the impact of COVID-19 on communities of color. And you’ve heard the stats in New York City, Hispanics represent the majority of deaths in Milwaukee County. Blacks are 25% of the population, but almost 50% of the cases and 75% of the deaths.
<28:55>
So what’s going on? Well, it’s alarming, but it’s not surprising that people of color have a greater burden of chronic health conditions. African Americans and Native Americans… Excuse me, develop high blood pressure at much younger ages. It’s less likely to be under control and does greater harm to their organs.
<29:13>
Puerto Ricans have higher rates of asthma and black boys are three times as likely to die of asthma as their white counterparts. As a matter of fact, I’ve been carrying around an inhaler in my pocket for 40 years, out of fear of having a fatal asthma attack. And I hope that showing you this inhaler shows little kids with asthma all across the country that they can grow up to be surgeon general one day. But I more immediately share it so that everyone knows it doesn’t matter if you look fit, if you look young, you are still at risk for getting and spreading and dying from coronavirus.
<29:47>
The chronic burden of medical ills is likely to make people of color, especially less resilient to the ravage of COVID-19 and if possibly, in fact likely that the burden of social ills is also contributing. Social distancing and teleworking we know are critical. And you’ve heard Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci talk about how they prevent the spread of coronavirus, yet only one in five African-Americans and one in six Hispanics has a job that lets them work from home.
<30:12>
People of color are more likely to live in densely packed areas and in multi-generational housing situations, which create higher risk for spread of a highly contagious disease like COVID-19. We tell people to wash their hands, but a study showed 30% of the homes on Navajo Nation don’t have running water. So how are they going to do that? And some people of color experience both more likely exposure to COVID-19 and increased complications from it.
<30:38>
But let me be crystal clear. We do not think people of color are biologically or genetically predisposed to get COVID-19. There is nothing inherently wrong with you, but they are socially predisposed to coronavirus exposure and to have a higher incidence of the very diseases that puts you at risk for severe complications of coronavirus.
<30:56>
But as the Vice President shared on the call this morning, this history, and I want you to hear me say this, it does not have to be our nation’s future. We’re taking steps now in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic to reach, protect and strengthen all communities impacted by this disease and especially our communities of color. More details will be forthcoming, but we are actively working as the Vice President and the CDC director laid out today, data collection, targeted outreach to communities of color and increasing financial employment, education, housing, social and health supports so that everybody has an equal chance to be healthy.
<31:32>
And I want to close by saying that while your state and local health departments and those of us in public service are working day and night to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and to protect you regardless of your color, your creed, or your geography, I need you to know you are not helpless and it’s even more important that in communities of color, we adhere to the task force guidelines to slow the spread. Stay at home if possible. If you must go out, maintain six feet of distance between you and everyone else and wear a mask if you’re going to be within six feet of others.
<32:04>
Wash your hands more often than you ever dreamed possible. Avoid alcohol, tobacco, and drugs and call your friends and family, check in on your mother. She wants to hear from you right now. And speaking of mothers, we need you to do this, if not for yourself then for your abuela, do it for your granddaddy, do it for your big mama, do it for your pop-pop. We need you to understand, especially in communities of color, we need you to step up and help stop the spread so that we can protect those who are most vulnerable.
<32:36>
This epidemic is a tragedy, but it will be all the more tragic if we fail to recognize and address the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 and an array of other diseases and risk factors on communities of color. The task force and this administration are determined not to let that happen. The President, the Vice President has said, “We will not let that happen.” We can’t fix these issues overnight, but I promise you we will work with your communities to quickly and meaningfully move the needle in the right direction. Nothing less than the fate of our families and friends. My family and friends depends on it.
<01:04:46>
I said granddaddy too.
<01:04:59>
Well I used that language because that’s the… I had been meeting with the NAACP, with the National Medical Association, with others. I actually talked with Derek Johnson multiple times this week, the head of the NAACP. And we need targeted outreach to the African American community. And I used the language that is used in my family. I have a Puerto Rican brother-in-law. I call my granddaddy granddaddy. I have relatives who call their grandparents big mama.
<01:05:29>
So that was not meant to be offensive. That’s the language that we use and that I use and we need to continue to target our outreach to those communities. It is critically important that they understand it’s not just about them and I was very clear about that. It’s not just about what you do, but you also are not helpless. We need to do our part at the federal level. We need people to do their parts at the state level and we need everyone black, brown, white, whatever color you are to follow the president’s guidelines, the coronavirus guidelines, and do their part because when I talked to the NAACP three weeks ago, it’s important to note that one of the things they asked me was can you help dispel the myths in this community that people actually can’t get coronavirus if they’re black. That was a myth that was out there that’s actually very important for us to squash here.
<01:06:21>
Absolutely. Yeah. It’s especially important for people who are at risk and with co-morbidities, but yes, all Americans. So thank you. And I will clarify that. All Americans need to avoid these substances at all times. I put out a smoking cessation report in January. I put out an advisory against youth and pregnant women using marijuana last year and that was not directed towards any one race. That’s everybody needs to do everything they can to be as healthy as possible at this critical time. Dr. Fauci, can you add anything?
<01:07:23>
Happy serving the people, sir.
