<34:34>
Thank you Mr. President, Mr. Vice president. Mr. President, we heard you many times, four or five years ago, saying that if we don’t take care of our veterans, if we don’t take care of our seniors, who are we as a nation, and you promise then, and have delivered now many times to protect their entitlements, to preserve, to protect Social Security and Medicare. But our seniors are also entitled to dignity, to safety, to the presence of mind and the peace of mind of knowing that their financial assets are protected from money mules, and from those who would lore and lurk among them.
<35:08>
All of the great work that’s been done in trying to solve this global pandemic, including for our seniors, has also left them vulnerable in a different way, they’re away from family members. Many of them are in their homes, taking advantage of the great work that our health and economic teams have been doing for them, and our justice teams, but they also are bigger, brighter prey for many of these predators. And so we want to make sure that that physical abuse we saw in a videotape a couple of weeks ago, a person or persons being abused in a nursing home by an errant individual, a criminal individual, that we all know that we shine a light on that, but also these financial crimes are very serious. So thank you for all you’re doing in that regard.
<35:55>
I just, since so much has been said by the <inaudible 00:35:59> members around the table, I’ll end with this. It’s really a message for the media. I know many of you don’t like being told that you are guilty of bias coverage, but don’t be guilty of incomplete coverage. Today is World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, there is a board behind me and one over there. You choose every single day, every single moment, what message to tweet, what news to report, what story to tell, please include this in your reporting. It is important. It is World Elder Abuse Awareness day for a reason, and you can help us with that awareness. Be a resource, be a friend to America’s seniors today, if not seniors internationally by letting them know there are tools at their disposal and we are here to help solve these problems. Thank you.
