<01:01:18>
Thank you, sir. And thanks to everybody here. Those are wonderful words. We appreciate your strong efforts and support. We have a lot more to do. I just find to connect a dot or two. Kevin was talking, Kevin Hassett, my friend and colleague. When we were in the oval last night talking about these are temporary job losses. Probably three quarters of them, if not more. If you had told me that I would go on the air, on a day when we lost 20 million jobs, and the stock market would go up 400 points, that would have been very interesting.
<01:01:58>
I’ve been around a while. I thought I’d seen it all, but this is a new wrinkle. I don’t want to repeat this experiment, but I’m just saying. And I do think it’s because it’s temporary. And I do also think the stock market bottomed in March 23rd, I know it fluctuates and so forth. But I think that a lot of the things that Steven has negotiated. And we’ve heard about the PPP, extending it, and so forth. I think that’s one reason why these are temporary losses and why the market is shrugging them off.
<01:02:32>
And I do want to reiterate, it is very possible that we will get a lot of these jobs back fast. It’s very possible as private surveys and even the CVO, we will have a 20% increase in growth, in the second half of this year. As you say, sir, as a transition. And then finally, I want to say that, and I appreciate your comments very much sir. If we stated the principles that worked the first three years, I mean January and February of this year, the economy was growing at 3.1% at an annual rate, before the virus hit. low taxes, roll back regulations, energy independence, good, fair, reciprocal trade deals, the building blocks of a blue collar boom, of a middle class wage boom, middle class wages and less, and a small business boom. which is the heart of the Republican party. There’s no reason you did it once.
<01:03:37>
And if we stay with those principles, and do it again. And next year, 2021 can be absolutely a spectacular year. So I really believe that. I will just say it is my honor to be part of this, sir. Thank you.
