<22:13>
Thank you Mr. President. Echoing the thanks. If you had lost that election in 2016 we would never have been energy independent. And it’s been great for Texas. It’s been great for America. And I do want to advise our media friends, before they write stories about how we didn’t wear masks and we didn’t possibly socially distance adequately, that you saw to it that we had tests and that nobody in here has the coronavirus unless it’s somebody in the media. So the only reason we would wear mask is if we were trying to protect ourselves from you in the media, and we’re not scared of you. So that’s why we can be here like this. So thank you.
<23:03>
So that’s why we can be here like this. So thank you for an amazing job you’ve done and it is amazing to see the hypocrisy. You do a travel ban, like Mark said, it saved lives and they called you racist and then when they realized you did the right thing, they said you should have done it earlier. And perhaps they could have noticed the need if they had not been pursuing the hoax that was the impeachment. And I know the Speaker is appointed this new committee to investigate your handling of the coronavirus and I’ve suggested they ought to name that committee, the Committee of Oligarchs to unelect the President or COO for short. But that’s exactly what it is. And the money, Steve and Larry, thank you for your work. There are a lot of people that are working for companies today that would not be in my district, in East Texas and they wouldn’t be.
<24:10>
I’ve heard this week from some that say they’re getting threats that if they had any capital, they shouldn’t have taken the loan and they may be pursued for criminal when they could not have hired those people back if they had not taken the loan. So I hope that that’ll be backed off a little bit because it has put people to work that couldn’t otherwise. But I’m optimistic and I wouldn’t be if you weren’t president. So thank you for the work you’re doing-
<24:43>
Never, no.
<25:04>
Could I make a suggestion on the justice area? And I know that with the Democrats in charge, some of the most important reforms may not happen, but the F.B.I. is the only law enforcement entity I’m aware of that has not even come into the 20th century, not even asking them to come into the 21st. Everybody else does video tapes and audio tapes and the F.B.I. interviews witnesses and goes back and records their own notes of what they want to say a witness said and then it’s easily changed. And we need to bring them into the 20th century where they start at least doing some audio recordings so they can’t change them. So that’s one of the lessons we’ve seen from what’s happened in their effort to create a coop.
<26:38>
Say we don’t have the old one.
<26:45>
Thank you.
