<03:21>
Well, thank you Mr. President and good afternoon everyone. I appreciate the opportunity to be here today as we make this a very important announcement. At a time when the nation and the Department of Defense are focused on protecting the American people from the spread of the coronavirus, we also remain vigilant to the many other threats our country faces. Today, at the President’s direction, the Department of Defense in close cooperation with our inter-agency partners began enhanced counter-narcotics operations in Eastern Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. This initiative is part of the administration’s whole of government approach to combating the flow of illicit drugs into the United States and protecting the American people from their scourge.
<04:03>
I want to thank all of our partners in this effort to include the United States Coast Guard, the Department of Homeland Security, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Justice, and members of the intelligence community for the tremendous support and cooperation. To conduct these enhanced operations, the President has directed the deployment of additional ships, aircraft, and security forces to the United States Southern Command area of responsibility. Included in this force package are Navy destroyers and littoral combat ships, Coast Guard Cutters, P.A. patrol aircraft, and elements of an Army security force assistance brigade. These additional forces will nearly double our capacity to conduct counter-narcotics operations in the region. Additionally, 22 partner nations have joined us in this fight, bring with them a variety of intelligence and operations capabilities needed to defeat these criminal organizations. Last year alone, United States Southern Command’s operations resulted in the seizure of over 280 metric tons of drugs, much of which was designated for shipment to America.
<05:03>
While this was an incredible achievement, there’s much more work to be done. Transnational criminal organizations continue to threaten our security by smuggling cocaine, fentanyl, methamphetamines and other narcotics across our borders. These drug traffickers put our communities at risk and destroy lives. Every year, tens of thousands of Americans die from drug overdose and thousands more suffer the harmful effects of addiction. Furthermore, corrupt actors like the illegitimate Maduro regime in Venezuela, rely on the profits derived from the sell of narcotics to maintain their oppressive hold on power. The Venezuelan people continue to suffer tremendously due to Maduro’s criminal control over the country. Drug traffickers are seizing on this lawlessness by increasing their illicit activities. We must do more to prevent these drugs from arriving at our shores. These enhanced counter-narcotics operations that are now underway will further disrupt the flow of illicit drugs to America, deny our adversaries the financial resources they depend on and build the capacity of our partner nations throughout the region.
<06:08>
I want to thank President Trump for his leadership and support to this critical mission. This is particularly important time for this operation to begin. As nations around the world shift their focus inward to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, many criminal organizations are attempting to capitalize on this crisis. The enhanced operations we are announcing today will keep the pressure on these criminal groups and protect the American people from the devastation caused by the flow of illegal drugs into our country. Mr. President, thank you for your leadership as we begin this important operation. While the men and women of the United States military work hard here at home to fight the coronavirus, we continue to take action around the world to defend our great country. Thank you and I’d like to invite General Milley.
<17:14>
Sure thing, thanks Mr. President. So first of all, it’s simply a matter of prioritization. The President’s giving us very clear guidance on what’s important to him in protecting the American people. And as some of you know, I began to review months ago looking at all of our different geographic combatant commands and looking at where we can free up time, money, and resources to put into other endeavors. In this case, we had scrutinized our inventory fairly closely, that Chairman Milley did a great deal of work on this with Admiral Gilday and we felt that there was no risk to the fleet, to our operations to free up, in this case Naval ships. We also freed up aircraft and other assets to apply them to this presidential priority. And of course, the Coast Guard did the same, so it was a very good operation. We feel this is very important to the American people and completely in line with the President’s direction.
<18:03>
Well, it depends. What we’re going to do is we’re going to run it for some matter of time. I’m not going to disclose how long that will be and then we will assess it and then we’ll make adjustments from there. We may increase, we may decrease, we may sustain as is, but this will be an assessment we will do as an inter-agency team. We will report back to the President and we’ll take further guidance from there.
<27:59>
Is the Mexican government or any other Latin American government working in conjunction with this operation to help with that drug?
<33:09>
I’d like to add one thing to that. There seems to be this narrative out there that we should just shut down the entire United States military and address the problem that way. That’s not feasible. We have a mission. Our mission is to protect the United States of America and our people. And so, we live and work in cramped quarters, whether it’s an aircraft carrier, a submarine, a tank, a bomber, it’s the nature of our business. But the chain of command has very clear guidance and I’m confident between the commanding officers and the senior non-commissioned officers, they’re taking every reasonable precaution to make sure we practice as best we can, social distancing, sanitizing environments, et cetera, consistent with that mission. And that’s what I trust Admiral Gilday, acting Secretary Modly and all the other service chiefs and service leaders to do. And I’m confident we’ll do that, because keep in mind, we have a job to do and we will continue to do it. Defend the United States of America.
<36:42>
Well, excuse me. As you know, we have the hospital ships currently deployed, one in LA and one in New York city. So, they could be treating patients as they come in. We’re taking precautionary measures to screen them beforehand to make sure that they’re not exposed, if you will. Same with the military hospitals that we’re deploying, certainly again to New York, Seattle, and other places. But the one thing we got to be careful of is that these are deployable assets. They are unique.
<37:08>
So, if we want to retain the ability to deploy military doctors, expeditionary military hospitals around the country, we’ve got to preserve and protect them as best we can. That said, we remain completely available to assist as need be, as directed by FEMA, as the vice president and the president asks us, that’s what we commit to do to the American people to help safeguard them and protect them through this virus.
<37:36>
They could if called upon. I think the best use for them is based on their training and how they’re structured and organized is for trauma. We can take the load off of hospitals with regard to their trauma patients, thereby freeing up rooms and other doctors, particularly doctors who are respiratory nurses or doctors who deal with infectious disease to treat those types of patients. So, I think it’s the best use of our resources. But again, if push comes to shove, we’re prepared to do what we have to, to assist the American people. At the same time preserving the medical capability we need to support our operation deployed forces abroad.
<41:15>
Well, first and foremost, we empathize for the Iranian people. I mean, they clearly have been hit hard as you know. I think the president’s spoken about it, certainly Secretary Pompeo. We’ve offered assistance, we’ve offered medical supplies, et cetera. They have refused that. I think if the Iranian regime put more interest in terms of taking care of their people in the context of this virus, they would be better served. Instead, the Iranian regime continues to want to spread its malign activities throughout the region. They want to continue to send out the <inaudible 00:14:42> force and others to cause problems throughout the region.
<41:46>
We know that in one way, shape or form, they either, resourcing, directing, approving or whatever operations for Shia militia groups in Iraq that are targeting American forces. So I think at the end of the day, again, I feel deep concern for the Iranian people, the important thing is the Iranian government should focus on them and stop this malign behavior that they’ve been conducting now for over 40 years. I think the entire region and certainly the Iranian people would be better off for it.
