<26:35>
Thank you, Mr. President. The actions that you’re taking, like the PDP, we set up to provide not only relief, but actually ensure that the economy is going to come roaring back as we get through this. Now, we’re really grateful you included us today, Ivanka, Mr. President. Distinguished group of colleagues here from the sector. Everybody’s stepping up, as MasterCard is. But as Al Kelly was saying earlier, we’re a little bit different in this since we don’t operate directly …
<27:03>
We were saying earlier, we are a little bit different in this since we don’t operate directly in <inaudible 00:27:05>. Now what we do is we enable commerce. The way we do it, is we connect banks, we connect merchants, we connect other financial institutions here in the United States and around the world, to basically enable that the everyday person can buy goods and services. So then today that is buying your groceries online, because that’s what most people are doing these days. Now when you asked the question, “Where are these purchases taking place?” They’re taking place with small businesses. So if small business suffers here in the US, the economy suffers, Congress suffers, and the whole nation suffers.
<27:39>
So we have a long standing commitment to the small business sector. There’s lots of products and solutions out there that we bring to market with our banking partners. Now today though, I’m going to make a very specific commitment to help this situation at this very needed time.
<27:56>
So I want to take us back just three years for a moment. In 2017 the administration put forward the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act. At that time, MasterCard decided to take a step back and say, ‘what do we do with these funds that are now available to us?” We made a commitment to put half a billion dollars into inclusive growth, which includes a good focus on small business.
<28:20>
Now today, we are announcing that we are taking $250 million out of that commitment and directing it very specifically to the small business sector. That will include data, that will include financial resources, tools, services, insights, whatever gets the small businesses back on track to grow their business and serve their customers.
<28:45>
Now I give you one very specific example that’s ready to go as we speak to help small businesses out there? Now in this conversation, the Small Business Administrations is guaranteeing loans and the banks that we have just referred to are facilitating the loans. MasterCard stands ready to support small businesses as they’re trying to use those funds. Many of these businesses are shifting the business online these days, because physical interaction is just limited. That exposes vulnerabilities to cyber risk, exposes vulnerabilities to identity theft and so forth. Our solution in this space will be made available for free for the 30 million small businesses that are under the program and their 60 million employees,. $250 million, very specifically targeted to the small business sector over the next five years. Thank up Mr. President.
<29:42>
Thank you very much.
