<20:26>
<inaudible 00:00:20:26>.
<20:31>
Good. Hi, sir. How are you?
<20:34>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
<20:39>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you Secretary Mnuchin and Ivanka for the opportunity for Citi and me to have the ability to talk about our efforts to help consumers and small business weather this crisis. Mr. President, when we met in the White House in March, I told you that we were here to help support the American economy and American workers. We’ve been working relief with our customers for more than a month now. On March 6th, we announced assistance measures for retail bank customers, small businesses in the US who’ve been impacted by COBID-19. Today, we expanded that assistance through a range of new ventures, including credit card payment deferrals and additional fee waivers. We’re now offering to waive late fees to defer minimum payments for 60 days for our credit card customers, and we know that many of our credit card customers are small business owners using our products to meet expenses. The retail bank customers are now offering fee waivers on non Citi ATM usage.
<21:42>
We’re also extending our earlier fee waivers for consumers and small business, and we continue to meet the large urgent demand of small business across the country with our after hours and weekend support. Over the past weeks, our backers have been engaging with many of our small businesses to assess their needs and to deliver critical financial solutions. Now, as part of the SBH paycheck protection program, we’re going to be able to help a lot more of our small business customers. The assist of the DRD loans will provide a bridge to the other side of this health and economic crisis for many small businesses that are doing everything they can to retain their people, their employees and their customers. We’ve started to take a limited number of applications to test our process and origination capabilities, and so far we’ve originated about a half a billion dollars of loans through the program. We want to make sure that our process is as smooth as possible for our clients as we move to apply that to a large scale program.
<22:48>
Now, I’ve got to say that Citi is proud to participate in this unprecedented and much needed effort. Thank you again, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and Ivanka, for having me today.
<23:15>
Not as simple as it used to be.
