<15:35>
Thank you Mr. President. Good afternoon all and thank you Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today. We briefed the President on our latest recommendations. We continue at the President’s direction to lead, not a whole of government approach, but a whole of America approach. You just heard the President describe one inspiring story after another at the way the American people are responding, the way American businesses are responding, religious communities across this country. The American people are coming together, they’re responding with common sense, compassion and generosity. People are heeding the advice of state and local authorities and tens of millions of Americans are putting into practice 15 days to slow the spread.
<16:24>
We are officially, Mr. President, it’s six days into our 15 days and as we look all across this country, while we strongly support the decisions that governors in states where we have significant outbreak have taken and we encourage every American to listen to those state and local authorities for every American this is what you can do to make a difference. Over the next week and a few days to protect your health, protect your family’s health, but most especially slow the spread and the potential for the Corona virus to impact the most vulnerable.
<17:06>
As the President said, we’ve almost been overwhelmed at the outpouring of support from American businesses. The President spoke yesterday to thousands of small businesses. We spoke to manufacturers yesterday and in fact, as the President indicated, the FDA in record time just approved one manufacturer that will be producing millions of surgical masks in a matter of weeks for the American people. The pastors we spoke to we want to thank all the religious leaders from every community of faith in the country, making the hard choice to suspend services, to have online services even while those ministries are continuing to support food banks and come alongside of the most vulnerable.
<17:54>
And of course the chorus of prayers that is coming up from communities of faith around the country is making the difference that it always has in the life of this nation. One thing the President and I promise was to remind people that on the weekends that you’re not in the pews. It’s still a good, it’s still a good idea to, if you can, to go ahead and make that donation because cause all the ministries are continuing to play a vital role in our communities and we encourage your continued support.
<18:23>
The President and I are grateful that the American people are listening to state and local authorities and and putting into practice all of all of the recommendations in the president’s coronavirus guidelines. And as you will hear in just a few moments from Admiral <Giroir 00:18:41>, testing is expanding rapidly across the United States of America. State run drive throughs are expanding across the country and as you will hear detailed this morning, now more than 195,000 Americans and more who have been symptomatic have been tested. That number does not include county hospitals or healthcare labs around the nation, some 15,000 in number. And among the number of the more than 195,000 that have been tested it’s important to remember that only 19,343 at this moment have tested positive for the Coronavirus.
<19:24>
We want to continue to urge a state and local health authorities to contact FEMA for all the latest developments and innovations in testing. But we want to remind Americans as Dr. Fauci will emphasize in a moment, if you don’t have symptoms, don’t do a test. It is another way that the American people can make sure that we are preserving the resources that our healthcare workers need to minister and to support those who are dealing with the Coronavirus and other illnesses. In a moment, Pete Gaynor will detail the efforts at FEMA since the President’s national emergency declaration.
<20:04>
We have FEMA in the lead. Stood up the National Response Coordination center as the president said, and we are working closely literally hour by hour through FEMA processing requests from states most impacted like New York, Washington state and California. And we’ll continue to work very, very closely with those states through the very traditional means of federal emergency management at FEMA. Secretary Carson will describe decisive actions the President alluded to, to bring foreclosure relief to Americans. And on the subject of supplies, in a moment you will hear of not only the progress that we’re making on testing, but on Monday we’ll be detailing for the American people the progress that we are making on the President’s strategy of procuring more personal protective equipment and medical supplies. Allocating them through the system of FEMA and continuing to urge conservation by Americans. In fact, I’m pleased to report to the president today that HHS just placed an order for hundreds of millions of N95 mass that will be being made available to healthcare providers across the country.
<21:18>
On behalf of the President. We do renew our call for Americans to postpone elective medical procedures including dental services and remember this is another way that you’re going to make sure that medical supplies are available because by postponing elective medical procedures you’re freeing up medical supplies for those dealing with the Coronavirus. As the President mentioned, our team is on Capitol Hill as we speak, working with members of Congress in both political parties. They’re making progress by all accounts on a bipartisan bill. They worked late into the night last night. It started early this morning and we are working to pass that legislation on Monday in both the House and the Senate. Now on a personal note, many of you may have been made aware that a member of my staff has tested positive for the Coronavirus. We learned of that late yesterday. I am pleased to report that he’s doing well. He had mild cold like symptoms for about a day and a half. Has not been to the White House since Monday. Neither the President nor I had direct contact with that staff person. We worked immediately with the White House physician and the CDC. We’ve done all contact tracing and while the White House doctor has indicated that he has no reason to believe that I was exposed and no need to be tested, given the unique position that I have as Vice-President and as the leader of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, both I and my wife will be tested for the Corona virus later this afternoon.
<22:52>
Let me say again how grateful the President and I are that every American has acted on the President’s coronavirus guidelines. We are six days into 15 days. That has Dr. Fauci-
<23:03>
We are six days into 15 days, but as Dr. Fauci may well reflect in a moment is an opportunity for us here on the foot holes of this epidemic curve in our country to literally lower the impact in our nation and save lives. Every American can do their part to slow the spread and we encourage you each to continue to do that. As the president says often, remember, we’re all in this together. And also remember that for most Americans, their risk of serious illness from the coronavirus remains low. The reason we want to put into practice the president’s coronavirus guidelines is because no American would want to inadvertently expose someone who is vulnerable, a senior with a serious underlying health condition to the coronavirus with a potential threat.
<23:52>
I did hear one story this morning, Mr. President, about a senior named, Geneva Wood. She actually is at the Life Care Center in Kirkland, Washington. She is not only a grandmother, she is a great, great grandmother, 90 years young and she tested positive for the coronavirus on March 6th, but by all accounts she’s doing well and she wanted America to know there is hope. And her strength and her enthusiasm is truly an inspiration to the nation. As the president said many times and we’re going to get through this and come out stronger than ever before. And we’ll get through this as Americans together. Thank you, Mr. President.
<45:24>
Yeah. HHS is completing a half a billion dollar order of N95 masks and, all of this is being coordinated through FEMA and we are responding specifically to state requests where the needs arrive. As Dr. Fauci said, we want to make sure that people that are providing healthcare services to people who may have contracted coronavirus have the protection to keep themselves and their families healthy. But I want to emphasize, the supply of so-called N95 masks has been vastly increased.
<46:03>
N-95 masks has been vastly increased in the country because the President insisted that we extend liability protection to industrial masks. What all the experts told us early on was that industrial mass that are used on construction sites, the President’s very familiar with from his past life, are perfectly appropriate to protect healthcare workers from respiratory illness. But they didn’t have the liability protection because they weren’t created for hospitals. We worked with leaders in both parties. We added that protection that runs through 2024 that now the industrial N-95 masks can be purchased by hospitals, purchased by states, purchased by HHS and distribute through our system. So we’re making those available. The supply has been, as I said, vastly increased and it’s another step forward and a bipartisan accomplishment and we’re continuing to use all the creative means of American industry to make sure that we’re leaning into this effort and that we do whatever it takes to make sure that our healthcare providers have the protective equipment they need.
<47:18>
Well, let me let Pete Gaynor speak to that because FEMA will be, HHS is now fully integrated into FEMA and so as the requests come in, but obviously as I’m sure the administrator will say, they’re being prioritized to those areas with the highest need.
<50:15>
May I? And one other, this is another story about great American industry. We the President and I literally heard directly from Apple that they’re donating 2 million industrial masks to this effort around the country and working with our administration to distribute those. And it might be a good opportunity for us to renew our call for, as the President and I delivered this message to businesses yesterday, manufacturers and small businesses. It’s a great time to go to your store room and if you have N-95 masks, if you’ve got a hundred of them, if you’ve got 10,000 of them, is to load them up, drive them over to your local hospital. That story is literally happening all over the country and now with more Americans stepping away from elective surgery, including elective dental care, we’re urging dentists around America to look at their supplies of N-95 masks and make those available to our hospitals.
<51:16>
But the great news is as the President said, the American people are all doing this now. So allow me to say on behalf of the President, thank you for what you all are doing today, but we want to encourage people in business, encourage people in dentistry in particular. Look at those supplies of N-95 masks. Pack up as many as you can spare. Drop them off at your local hospital. It would be a great service to the country.
<01:13:49>
Yeah, you bet. We spoke a lot about mass this morning but the president’s also given the task force a priority of assessing the availability, and expanding the availability of ventilators, and on Monday we will detail some very encouraging news for Americans. You speak about the number of 13000. It is a little more than that, that we have in the national stockpile, but it’s important to remember that doesn’t include more than 100000 ventilators that are in healthcare facilities and hospitals around America today. It doesn’t include what will be produced. As the president said we’re seeing companies step forward. These manufacturers tell us that a ventilator actually isn’t a very complicated piece of equipment, and many of them are literally surging forward to create more ventilators. But one of the more exciting developments in the last week, which we’ll detail more on Monday, is that in the president’s engagement with our healthcare community we learned that ventilators that are currently used by anesthesiologist, that are used in outpatient clinics, and other procedures can be converted to be used as ventilators for people struggling with the effects of the coronavirus.
<01:15:14>
We’ve confirmed that a particular screen in that device can be changed readily. We’re working with the FDA to approve that. But again, it’s a great testament of the American people and our healthcare professionals that are stepping forward and bringing ideas forward that literally, as we’ll document Monday, will increase the supply of ventilators by tens of thousands. But look, the president’s made it clear. We want to make sure that all the incredible courageous men and women who are serving in healthcare around America have the support they need, that our patients that are struggling with recovering from coronavirus have the equipment they need.
<01:15:57>
We’ll have a lot of detail on Monday as we continue to assess.
<01:16:08>
Let me let Admiral Giroir speak to that.
<01:18:20>
Thank you all. How about back here.
<01:18:47>
We received a briefing this morning from the State Department about their efforts, and we want to be very clear, while the president has suspended all travel from Europe, including the UK and Ireland, suspended all travel of course from China since January, any American who can get home can come home. They’ll go through additional screening. That’s all been implemented, and is working in an orderly way at a number of airports around the country.
<01:19:18>
But there are instances, Morocco being among them, where there simply are not flights to get home. Our State Department has been working very closely with our embassies in those relevant countries. I was told this morning that all the way going back to bringing Americans back from China that we have made individual efforts to bring home about 3000 Americans. I think there is an ongoing effort to address that with chartered commercial flights that the government is providing, obviously, also military transport is available. Our task force received a briefing this morning and we would just encourage any American that’s looking on from overseas contact the local US embassy, let them know about your circumstances, and know that we’re going to continue to work very diligently to get our Americans home.
<01:20:26>
Yes.
<01:20:50>
I think it’s a terrific question, and we will bring Secretary Betsy DeVos here tomorrow or on Monday to address our efforts. The objective here was as people are embracing the president’s 15 days to slow the spread we have decisions by local school boards, and local, and state officials that have canceled school or suspended school for a time, and we wanted the Federal Department of Education to make it clear that the burden of standardizing testing, which back in my days as governor I remember takes a number of days, and sometimes up to a week to administer, is not going to be placed on schools. We’ll have the secretary here to address that very specifically, and it’s a very good point on your part.
<01:22:20>
The president brought together the top pharmaceutical companies in America and in the world a number of weeks ago, and they formed a consortium to work on a range of responses beginning with therapeutics which for a layman like me that just means medicine to make you feel better. They’re already going to work on that. We actually think, Dr. Fauci, I think there’s some sense that our great pharmaceutical companies may actually be producing therapeutics that will give relief to Americans struggling with coronavirus as soon as this spring. We also challenged them to work together as rapidly possible to develop a vaccine going forward.
<01:23:05>
And as Dr. Fauci has indicated we brought a vaccine to clinical trials now the better part of a week ago, the fastest time in history. Now, it’s the first phase of the trials and people should understand, as our health experts have described, they’ll be a period of as much as a year and a half before we can make those vaccines available. But as the president said at this podium there is some anecdotal evidence that several existing medicines may have brought relief to patients struggling in China, and in Europe, and the president has tasked the FDA to work very rapidly to allow what’s called off-label use for those.
<01:23:54>
One is a malaria medicine. This morning I think the president reiterated the hopefulness he feels about this, that because these are medications that are time honored, and tested, they’ve been taken for many, many years, that we want to pursue, number one, making those available. If someone’s doctor believes that it’s appropriate the doctor would be able to prescribe that medicine even though that’s not indicated.
<01:24:24>
That’s called an off-label use. But the other piece is, as Dr. Fauci said, and I’ll yield to him, in deploying those medicines we’re working specifically with one state to do so in a way that represents a clinical trial, so it would not just be compassionate use, which the medicines are already being used in some jurisdictions today, but also we could study it and determine the viability of it.
<01:24:56>
And in fact, we’re working diligently right now with that supply chain to make sure that those medicines are available. Dr. Fauci, did you want to speak to that?
<01:27:06>
Great. Let me just, if I may, let me just say I hope this morning has been informative. We will be back again tomorrow. And I hope the American people are encouraged because of the incredible whole of government approach because of our collaboration with states. You’re seeing testing expanded all across the country, that incredible public/private partnership with commercial labs is not making testing available by the tens of thousands. We’re working very diligently with an incredible response from American industry to make sure that personal protective equipment, ventilators, and all the things that our healthcare providers need to meet this moment is there.
<01:27:51>
But let me just say, again, what every American can do today, and that is first and foremost heed your state and local authorities. They’re individual states, California, Washington State, and at this moment especially New York that have issued guidance to their citizens, and as the president said we wholly support the leadership that those governors are providing in their states.
<01:28:19>
But secondly, every single American can put into practice the principles of our 15 days to slow the spread. The president’s coronavirus guidelines, as I said, we are six days in, and the purpose of these is not because every American is at risk of serious illness. As we said before, all our experts tell us, all the data shows, that the risk of serious illness to the average American remains low, but because the coronavirus is, we think, three times more contagious than the flu to slow the spread, to literally lower that curve, and spare Americans around our country with being exposed to, or contracting, the coronavirus, or worse every single one of us can put these principles into practice.
<01:29:13>
I recommend that you go to Coronavirus.gov, sit your family down, call a neighbor and a friend, support efforts in your local community to put these principles into practice. And as people all across this country continue to do just that I just know we’ll get through this, and we’ll get through this together. Thank you all.
