<26:42>
Thank you Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met this morning and now that we have cases in all 50 States, we’re continuing to move out on the president’s call to bring the full resources of the federal government, a full partnership with every state and territory, the full power of the American economy to support businesses and families. As the president says to us and everyday, “We’ll do whatever it takes. We’re all in this together.”
<27:10>
Yesterday, the president met with the tourism industry executives and also had an engaging discussion with all the top companies in our industrial and medical supply chain. Now, the president, as you all are aware, also announced today that by mutual consent the Northern border to Canada will be close to non-essential travel. This does not include essential travel or the transit of goods, but it was through a mutual discussion that took place this morning between the president and Prime Minister Trudeau and the Department of Homeland Security will be effectuating that decision.
<27:46>
The president spoke with some of the nation’s top business leaders today, again to speak about the supply chain in the country. And for our part, we’re going to be conducting a conference call later today with state and local health officials to renew our ongoing commitment of cooperation and collaboration.
<28:07>
As the president said last week in signing the Stafford Act, he stood up the National Response Coordination Center and today at the president’s direction, FEMA has gone to Level 1. FEMA’s mission is to support disasters that are locally executed, state managed and federally supported. And tomorrow, the president will be hosting all the nation’s governors from a video conference at FEMA to ensure that they have a full connection to all of the activated regions for FEMA going forward.
<28:43>
And with regard to testing, I’m pleased to report that we’re increasing the number of tests being performed by the thousands every day thanks to the public private partnership that President Trump forged with commercial laboratories around the country.
<28:58>
Our health experts tell us to remind every American, it’s important to remember people without symptoms should not get tested. We want to make sure that the supply of testing is there for those that need it most or are symptomatic or in the vulnerable population.
<29:15>
Dr Deborah Birks, in a moment, will address the progress that we’re making on testing, the infection rate, our recommendations to every America as well as some important new findings about the impact on youth that we’re gaining from data that’s coming in from Europe. That’ll be important to every, every American.
<29:35>
On the subject of supplies, the president has our task force extremely focused as the president mentioned yesterday, mentioned that he’s invoking the Defense Production Act today. Secretary Esper, in a few moments, will describe the ongoing efforts that the Department of Defense is taking to make medical resources available.
<29:54>
Secretary Robert Wilkie will announce decisions the VA has made to expand hospital capacity within their system. Also, with regard to medical personnel, at the president’s direction, HHS is issuing a regulation today that will allow all doctors and medical professionals to practice across state lines to meet the needs of hospitals that may arise in adjoining areas.
<30:18>
In addition to that, we are again today, asking every American and our medical community leaders and hospitals to partner with us in delaying elective procedures across the country in our healthcare system to ensure that medical supplies and medical capacity go where they’re needed most. Seema Verma will describe guidance that CMS will be issuing on that front.
<30:44>
And finally, just I want to remind every American of the president’s 15-day Guidance to slow the spread. We are grateful for members of the media and the general public that are adhering to these, sharing them with neighbors and friends. All of our experts continue to believe that if every American will do their part and embrace and put into practice these principles that we can significantly limit the reach of the coronavirus in the weeks and months ahead. Thank you, Mr. President.
<39:48>
Robert.
<48:09>
We have a specific number of ventilators in the stockpile. It’s in excess of 10,000 and you just heard the announcement from the Department of Defense. They’ll be adding several more thousand to that. But the president, even this morning and yesterday afternoon, speaking with the largest companies in the supply chain in this country, we’re hearing a tremendous spirit among industry leaders who are ready to step in and add to that volume. The stockpiles don’t count all of the ventilators that exist today in the marketplace and in healthcare facilities around the country.
<48:43>
But, the president has given us a directive to make sure that our stockpile, but just as importantly working with industry leaders that we’re securing the increase in ventilators, the increase in masks, gloves, eye protective care, garments that are all necessary to lean forward and <crosstalk 00:49:02> we’re confident we’ll be able to accomplish that with the incredible cooperation of the supply chain that exists in America today.
