<24:20>
Thank you Mr. President, and good afternoon, all. Today, as the president just reflected, it remains a challenging time in the life of our nation. But because of the extraordinary efforts of the American people, because of the strong partnership the federal government has forged with states across the country, we’re making progress America. Despite the tragic loss of more than 36,000 Americans, according to our best data reporting this morning, we continue to see new cases low and steady on the West coast, and we continue to see cases and hospitalizations declining. In the greater New York City area, in New Orleans, and Detroit, and elsewhere. This is a tribute first and foremost to our healthcare doctors, nurses, all of those working on the front lines, but it’s also a great tribute to the American people who have put into practice the social distancing, the guidelines, the guidance of state and local officials. And we hope that every American is encouraged by the steady progress that we are making.
<25:41>
We’re continuing to bring at the president’s direction, the full resources of the federal government to bear. Today, the president approved a major disaster declaration for American Samoa, and now all 50 states, and all territories are under major disaster declarations for the first time in American history. At this present moment, 33,000 national guardsmen are on duty. 5,500 active duty military personnel had been deployed to nine states, including 716 medical professionals, doctors and nurses who deployed out to 14 different hospitals today. Among those were 10 hospitals in New York City, and military personnel were also serving today in hospitals in Connecticut, Texas, Louisiana, and New Jersey. Yesterday, as the president reflected, we unveiled the president’s guidelines for opening up America again. There were two parts at the beginning of those guidelines. First, the criteria that we hope will guide governors in their decisions about reopening their states on either a statewide level, or a county level. And then also we outlined what we believe would be the most important state responsibilities to have in place before moving…
<27:03>
Important state responsibilities to have in place before moving into a reopening plan. For phase one the president’s guidelines you’ll recall advise that states that have a downward trajectory in cases over a 14 day period of time and ensure that they have proper capacity in their health care facilities could move to phase one with the easing of some of the social distancing and the criteria that had been in place. But for states that meet the criteria, we outlined specific responsibilities, protecting workers in critical industries, particularly protecting the most vulnerable, those who live and work in senior care facilities. And we also encourage states to have a plan a for testing symptomatic individuals and ensuring testing to our most vulnerable populations. As the president has made clear, governors will decide the time and manner that their states reopen and we will look to support them in that effort.
<28:05>
But as we assured the American people yesterday, the president’s direction, our administration will continue to work with governors across the country to ensure that they have the equipment and the supplies and the testing resources to reopen safely and responsibly. On the subject of supplies, today we issued a letter to our nation’s governors summarizing all the medical equipment and supplies that have been distributed to their state from Fema between the first of this month and April 14th through project Air bridge and through the commercial supply network. We’ll be speaking with our nation’s governors on Monday and detailing that information at that time. As of April 16th as the president reflected briefly, Fema has coordinated the delivery of millions of pieces of medical equipment including 44 million N95 respirators, 63 million surgical masks, more than 10,000 ventilators and of course deployed more than 8,600 federal medical station beds.
<29:06>
On the subject of testing resources we’re going to take some time to speak about our administration’s approach in partnership with states to continue to expand testing across the country at this briefing. But from the very outset of this epidemic, president Trump made efforts to essentially reinvent testing in America. The traditional testing in this country that takes place at CDC or at state labs was designed for basically the kind of diagnostic testing that is routinely required. But the president early on in this effort brought together the leading commercial labs in America. We forged a public and private partnership and six weeks ago we had performed some 25,000 tests and at this day we have performed 3.7 million tests. We believe that labs and hospitals are now performing more than 120,000 tests a day. And we’ve actually stood up a team from Walter Reed under the direction of Dr. Deborah Birx that is working around the clock to identify additional testing capacity across the country.
<30:16>
We believe that states could actually more than double the amount of daily testing that is happening today by simply activating all of the labs and Dr. Birx will detail some of those resources today and we’ll be going over those very specifically with governors on Monday. We’ve also been promoting the development of new and innovative tests. We all know about the 15 minute Abbott test, but the FDA is currently working on an antibody test that literally could add 20 million new tests to our supply even before the end of April. I want to assure the American people that we’re going to continue to work with your governors and with your state health officials to scale testing in the days ahead. But as you’ll hear from all of our experts tonight, our best scientists and health experts assess that states today have enough tests to implement the criteria of phase one if they choose to do so.
<31:17>
Let me say that again. Given the guidance in the president’s new guidelines for opening up America again, states that meet the criteria for going into phase one and then are preparing the testing that is contemplated by going to phase one. Our best scientists and health experts assess that today we have a sufficient amount of testing to meet the requirements of a phase one reopening if state governors should choose to do that. And you’ll hear more detail on that in just a moment. At the president’s direction, we’re going to be presenting an outline of our approach to testing in partnership with states during this briefing. Our approach will continue to be locally executed, state managed and federally supported. Dr Fauci will give us a brief introduction to the overall approach to testing that is contemplated to deal with the coronavirus. Dr. Redfield of the CDC will describe our plan to mobilize CDC officials in all 50 States to specifically monitor coronavirus incidents that occur in every state in the union.
<32:28>
Of course Dr. Deborah Birx will describe not only our tests but also the current capability and the capability that we could expand to very readily. And Admiral Gerard of the US public health service will summarize our approach. But I want to assure the American people that at the president’s direction we are going to continue to work every single day to make sure that our states and communities have the testing they need to reopen at the time and manner of their choosing. And we’re going to work every day to make sure our states have the resources and the supplies to reopen their states and reopen America in a safe and responsible way. With that, Dr. Fauci.
<43:43>
Thank you too. Dr. Redfield.
<48:19>
Thank you, Dr. Birx.
<56:47>
Montana.
<59:38>
And let me amplify one point as the Admiral steps forward to included remarks about our approach and the efforts we put under way…
<01:12:49>
Thank you. I’ll ask the team to step back up for questions and we do anticipate, as the schedule permitted, that the president will be returning momentarily. Please.
<01:13:11>
That’s a very good question.
<01:13:49>
And as we’ve made clear to the governors and other health officials, we’re going to continue to scale tests. As president’s made clear, we want governors and states to manage the testing operations in their states. We’ve given criteria, we’ve given guidance for how we think that would best operate, but we’re looking for the states, we’re looking for the governors to manage it. But in the midst of that, all of these great experts working with all these great facilities are going to continue to use that great American ingenuity to scale and increase the availability of testing for states to be able to implement as they move closer and closer to that day the president speaks of often. Where we reopen America and put all of America back to work. Mr. President?
