<00:50>
Thank you, Mr. President. And grateful to have the opportunity to meet with the leaders of our airline industry today. Mr. President, you said from early on that we were going to have a whole of government approach, but the truth is as, evidenced by all these great industry leaders, it’s really a whole of America approach. And the American people deserve to know that according to all of our experts, the risks of the average American of contracting the coronavirus remains low. And that’s largely owing to your decision, Mr. President, to suspend all travel from China into the United States and to quarantine all Americans that are returning. It’s also owing to the tremendous cooperation of this industry, the airline industry, because in addition to suspending travel from China, you recently made the decision to designate as “do not travel” certain areas of Italy, certain areas of South Korea, but we also, at your direction, have worked with this industry so that now as of yesterday morning, all passengers on all direct flights from all airports in Italy or South Korea are being screened on multiple times before they board any of these airlines.
<02:08>
We’re grateful for that, Mr. President. I know you are and everyone here should know that we’re going to continue to follow the facts and the data. Dr. Burks is working closely with all of our health officials to determine what additional screening might be required in the United States or in partners around the world. But our airlines are going to play a key role, Mr. President, in preventing the spread of this disease. And even earlier today at your direction, we met with leaders of our nursing home industry to talk about the measures, increased measures to prevent the spread of infectious disease. We’ve sent new guidance out to nursing homes. We’ll be announcing later today new priority of inspections for infectious diseases. We’re detailing that. We explained it to the industry today and also on the issue of testing, Mr. President, you’ve made that a priority. We’ll have over a million tests in the field today.
<03:05>
I spoke to several governors this morning that were grateful for the fact that the changes you made this weekend through the FDA now make it possible for state health clinics as well as universities around the country to be able to conduct coronavirus tests. But we’ll also be meeting this afternoon with leaders of our commercial laboratories to make a coronavirus test more rapidly, more wildly available for doctors offices and medical clinics and consumers around the country. So Mr. President, as you said, it is a whole of government approach, but in a very real sense, it’s a whole of America approach. And I’ve already expressed, and I know you feel a great deal of gratitude to our partners in industry and in the airline industry for acting on your priority to put the safety and health of the American people first.
<13:12>
Well, thank you Mr. President. Again, the American people deserve to know that the threat of contracting the coronavirus remains low according to all our experts. But at your direction, we are going to continue to bring the full resources of the federal government and we’re going to enlist the full resources of American industry to keep the American people safe. And our airlines have been exceptional partners with us, not only the executives, but we also want to commend the crews that have been taking such good care of passengers, people that are cleaning the planes and keeping it all safe and working with us on the screening process and the funneling process. And as you said, Mr. President, we’re going to continue to lean into this effort and we will continue to do so until we find our way through the impacts of the coronavirus. And when we accomplish that, we’ll accomplish it as one American people, as one team. And I’m grateful to have the people on the team here in the room.
<19:51>
We can talk. Bob Redfield, you might speak about the last administration asserted FDA jurisdiction over testing and the development of tests like this and Bob, the president changed that on Saturday. So that now as I spoke to several governors this morning, states now have the ability to actually conduct the coronavirus tests in state labs, university laboratories and that’s because of the change the president authorized. Bob, you just might very quick reflect on the changing jurisdiction of that that’s freed up more available testing.
