<31:20>
Thank you, Mr. President. Task force met this afternoon, as we do every day. Let me begin today by simply saying thank you to the American people. And thank you for the way that people across this country, seven days into 15 days to slow the spread.
<31:38>
The people in communities large and small across America are responding, are cooperating, are communicating. Not just on behalf of their own health and the health of their family, but more importantly on behalf of the most vulnerable among us. So on behalf of your president and our entire Task Force, just thank you to the American people. I also want to express our appreciation to the governors across the country. President today just announced action in New York, California, and Washington State as the latest demonstration that this administration will do whatever it takes to support the leadership at the state and local level as the American people confront the spread of the coronavirus.
<32:25>
The legislative efforts that are underway being negotiated on Capitol Hill as we speak, the bi- partisan spirit that’s taking place there that’s reflected in all of our interactions with state leaders around the country is a great credit to the nation. But it should be a great encouragement to the American people that your government at the federal level, at the state level, working with courageous healthcare providers all across America are coming together to meet this moment.
<32:55>
That is the way our system works. It’s extremely important that the American people recognize that one of the things that makes America different is that we have a system of federalism and that by putting FEMA in the lead, the president has emphasized that our response to the coronavirus is in the anthem of FEMA. It is locally executed, state managed and federally supported.
<33:24>
We want the people on the ground, the decision makers, to have what they need. We want states to be able to manage the unique circumstances in their states. And whether it be the legislation moving through the Congress or the efforts the president announced today, major disaster declarations, Title 32 on the National Guard, resources flowing, hospital beds flowing, we’re going to continue to make sure that our states have what they need to meet this moment.
<33:50>
Our task force continues to focus on the priorities the president’s given us. They are testing, mitigation and supplies. And on the subject of testing as is evident to people across the country, testing is more and more available every single day.
<34:04>
We’ll be detailing tomorrow from this podium the progress that we are making on tests. At this day’s reporting, 254,000 Americans have been tested and received results in coronavirus tests, with slightly more than 30,000 actually testing positive.
<34:25>
There’s a bit of an encouraging word in that for every American. Remember, everyone that’s being tested now, with the exception of our healthcare workers, are people that have symptoms that make them think they may have the coronavirus.
<34:37>
As our numbers come in consistently because the 254,000 does not include all the local hospitals or all the local labs in our states, it’s working out to be about one in 10 Americans who’ve been tested who thought they had coronavirus, actually had it. Nine out of 10 did not.
<34:55>
But we’ll continue to roll out the testing to provide that resource to the American people. And we’re working to make testing happen faster. We expect from word from the commercial labs that we should be caught up on the backlog in testing by the middle of the week.
<35:12>
We are urging today on the president’s behalf that all labs would prioritize in-patient testing. Let me say again, to all of the commercial labs in the country, you will receive guidance from HHS tomorrow.
<35:26>
But on behalf of the president and the White House Coronavirus Task Force, we are urging all commercial labs to prioritize in-patient testing. We want people that’ve been checked into a hospital, that are being treated for what they suspect to be coronavirus to receive those tests more quickly.
<35:47>
Also, I’m pleased to report that yesterday the FDA approved an emergency authorization on a new test that should be in production by the end of March. It actually would be a coronavirus test, the results of which come back in 45 minutes.
<36:03>
We’re also working, the FDA is working with manufacturers around the country to come up with even faster, more innovative tests. And as we told our governors in several calls this week, governors and state health officials should simply contact FEMA for the latest information on testing solutions.
<36:20>
Let me also say tomorrow when we gather at this podium, we’ll be unveiling, with Dr. Bob Redfield in the lead, new guidance for people that work in law enforcement, first responders. People that work in what we call critical infrastructure in the country.
<36:37>
It was in early March the CDC issued guidance for people that were asymptomatic or did not have symptoms, but who had been exposed to someone with coronavirus. Who gave them guidance about being able to return to work wearing a mask for 14 days.
<36:52>
Tomorrow at this podium, CDC will unveil, in cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security, new guidance which will make it possible for people that have been exposed to return to work more quickly by wearing a mask for a certain period of time.
<37:09>
Let me also amplify a point on behalf of the president and on behalf of the State Department about Americans abroad. One of the reasons why the United States is in a different position today than portions of Europe are and China and elsewhere, is because the president suspended all travel from China. He suspended travel from Europe and the UK and Ireland.
<37:33>
But the State Department is working around the clock to assist Americans who may find themselves overseas. They’re able to come home. There’s no barrier to Americans coming back to American soil. They’re screened when they come home through a series of airports.
<37:49>
But we’re aware that with flights being canceled, some Americans have found themselves unable to find a way home. As the president said, we’ve been working very diligently through the State Department to make it possible their commercial flights have been chartered. We’re also working with the military for a backup on flights. At this point, the State Department has brought more than 3,000 Americans back home.
<38:13>
But speaking to the secretary of state today, he wanted me to share a website and a phone number for any American that might be looking on from overseas. You can call the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program at 1-888-407- 4747. Or you can go online at step.state.gov. This will allow our embassies and consulates to gather important information about your situation and work to facilitate to bring you home.
<38:47>
Let me say, finally, as I began, let me close. As the chairman or the leader of this White House Coronavirus Task Force, we are seven days into 15 days and the American people are responding. Because as we speak about supplies, as we speak about testing, the most important thing every American can do is heed the guidance and the direction from your state and local officials, particularly in areas where we have widespread coronavirus infections.
<39:15>
But for every American putting into practice these measures that the president alluded to at the very beginning of his remarks is a way that we can do this, America. We can lessen the magnitude of the coronavirus in our country. With the cooperation, compassion, generosity and prayers of the American people, we can slow the spread, we can protect the most vulnerable and we can heal our land. So let’s do it, America.
<01:12:51>
Department of Homeland Security addressed that issue a few days ago. Customs and Border Protection actually issued guidance that absent certain circumstances, Customs and Border Protection does not target emergency rooms or health clinics, and I would refer you to the website. They issued a very clear statement making it clear to any person that is in need of a test or medical care that Customs and Border Protection is not focusing on emergency rooms or health clinics or the drive-through clinics.
<01:16:02>
The test was very quick, but it goes a fair amount up into your sinuses and it’s not comfortable, and that’s the reason it probably is a good opportunity to say again to any American looking on, if you don’t have symptoms, you don’t need a test. And the current testing format, although they’re evolving regularly now, we just mentioned that I think at the end of this week there’ll be a new test and there’s all new technologies. I would say again to all the governors that are looking on and their state health officials, contact FEMA, we’ll give you all the latest information on new testing that is available, including steps we’re making where Americans would be able to test themselves and send it in.
<01:16:50>
Well, for me and Mrs. Pence, it was kind of a pinch. It was kind of invasive, but we were grateful for the support. Walter Reed Hospital processed the test very quickly. They had a lab at the hospital to be able to do that and gave us the results quickly. But it also informed me we. We were wondering during that time as a family, and it’s one of the reasons the President’s made it such a priority that we brought all these commercial labs together, and now more than a quarter million tests have been done. We believe we’ll be caught up, if you will, by the middle of this week on a backlog of tests.
<01:17:29>
But we announced today that we are directing commercial labs to prioritize people who are in the hospital for tests, because we want to continue to work with new technology and with the new focus and guides from HHS to get the results of that as quickly as possible for every American. So if they have coronavirus, they can be properly treated, or they can have the peace of mind that they may have some other respiratory ailment, but not that.
<01:18:12>
That’s true.
