<40:53>
Thank you, Mr. President and I share your admiration for this remarkable team from the Army Corps of Engineers, to Brad, to Admiral Giroir. They’re doing a remarkable job every day.
<41:07>
As the President mentioned today, we had our weekly conference call with governors across the country, states and territories and I was able to convey to them our appreciation for the leadership that every governor of every state and territory has provided. Thanks to their leadership, thanks to the extraordinary cooperation of the American people, despite the fact that more than 770,000 Americans have contracted the coronavirus and our hearts grieve for the more than 41,000 Americans who’ve lost their life, the truth is that as we stand here today, we are slowing the spread and as the president reflected, we continue to see steady progress in less cases, lower hospitalizations, even in hotspots around the country. We commended America’s governors for their efforts in that regard. We are preserving our health care capacity as the general with the Army Corps of Engineers reflected. With the President’s direction, we’ve built a great number of hospitals around the country, but the utilization rate has been fairly low because of the mitigation efforts, the cooperation of the American people, we have not had to use them. That, as the president said, is very good news.
<42:25>
In a word, we thank governors across the country for taking actions, decisive action to save lives and to make a difference. I reminded them that we’re all in this together and we have one mission, we’re one team. We spoke on the conference call about last week’s guidelines to open up America again and we heard from governors across the country about the progress that they’re making. We spoke to governors from New Jersey, Connecticut, Florida, Louisiana, Texas, and Michigan about their ongoing efforts at social distancing and address questions that they had about needs that had been spoken up already in this presentation today.
<43:05>
In addition, as we promised last week when we spoke to governors on Thursday about the guidelines to open up America, our team presented every governor in the country, states and territories, with a memorandum detailing laboratory capacity in all locations of laboratory equipment for diagnostic tests that can perform the coronavirus test. We also provided, as Dr. Birx will elaborate in just a few moments, literally a map about where these testing devices are located.
<43:41>
I must tell you, Mr. President, I was very impressed at the way governors, as we speak, are scaling testing in their own states using these resources. Our hope is that by providing this information and by our team that we’ve enlisted out of Walter Reed, it’s contacting every one of the laboratories in the country to find out what their needs are and to encourage them to activate those testing machines to do coronavirus testing that will continue to be able to support a state-managed effort to increase testing even more.
<44:12>
But a few highlights. Governor Doug Ducey announced antibody testing for 250,000 health professionals this week and first responders, a partnership between the state and the University of Arizona. We spoke today about Governor Gavin Newsom’s announcement that he set up a task force for testing, five to seven high-capacity testing hubs in partnership with the UC San Diego and UC Davis to increase testing in high capacity labs around the state of California.
<44:43>
We heard from governor Ron DeSantis, Mr. President, about the efforts of the state of Florida. I believe he said that at this time Florida had conducted 275,000 coronavirus tests and they’re in the process of a major expansion of statewide testing with the goal of opening up additional sites and using the Florida National Guard to test residents at nursing homes and long-term care facilities in Florida.
<45:09>
We also recommended today to every governor’s attention, the public health website that the State of Florida established, which has useful information on a county-by-county level about where testing is happening. Mr. President, as you said, governors are utilizing testing assets. They’re managing and deploying these resources as they see fit. At your direction, we’re going to continue to work very closely with them.
<45:33>
Other governors that we spoke with included governor Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. There are 13 new or expanded coronavirus drive-through testing sites in Michigan that her team has stood up with Michigan Primary Care Association and we assured her that we would continue to work, as Brad and Admiral Giroir are literally working around the clock, to make sure that they have the supplies to support all of that testing. As the President said, Governor Hogan, who always begins our conference calls as he’s Chairman of the National Governors Association, expressed appreciation for last week’s guidelines to open America up again and his appreciation on behalf of all the governors for the list of laboratories in each individual state. He did raise the issue that we had included on the list Department of Defense facilities that have laboratories and machines and also other federal facilities, many of which are in Maryland. I was able to assure Governor Hogan, and every governor on the call, that we will make all of those laboratories available across the country to every state as the need for testing capacity continues to scale.
<46:47>
This is one more step where you see the Army Corps of Engineer, where you literally see thousands of military doctors and nurses on the streets in New York and other cities around the country, this is one more step where we’re literally, as the President said from early on, are leaving no stone unturned and we are delivering a whole-of-government approach for our States as they, as they deal with the coronavirus outbreak.
<47:12>
Governors are continuing to expand testing and we assured them that we’re going to continue to work in every way to support their efforts to do just that. I will say again as we’ve said before, as Dr. Birx comes up to explain to you what we deliver to the governors today, we told the governors once again today that by our best estimates we have enough testing capacity today for every state in America to go to Phase I, if they meet the other criteria of 14 days of reduced cases and sufficient hospital capacity to prepare for any eventuality that may occur.
<47:52>
Once again, we have enough testing capacity for every state in America to go to Phase I, but we assured the governors today that we’re going to continue to work around the clock to expand the testing capacity, support supplies and to support their efforts to encourage social distancing and the very mitigation efforts that the American people have been doing that have brought us the progress that we see all across the country today.
<48:17>
With that Mr. President, I’ll just let Dr. Burks describe what we distributed today.
<01:09:47>
We spoke to Governor Hogan today, I’ll follow up. Because I heard there was an announcement today about… That he had acquired some tests from overseas. Maybe we can put the slide back up that showed the number of facilities just in the State of Maryland. And part of our process, and I don’t know when the governor placed the order from South Korea, wouldn’t begrudge him or his health officials for ordering tests. But, the capacity of all the different laboratories and the number of machines that are across Maryland, was part of what we were communicating today. Including federal facilities, NIH is in Maryland, there’s Department of Defense facilities and… What we assured the governor then and we assured all the governors is that, we’ll open up all of those facilities. But, John back to your point. There was one other element of that, that’s the phase one testing. And I can’t really describe it as well as the doctors here, but it’s the contact tracing piece.
<01:10:49>
Where we really believe that states that meet the criteria 14 days of cases going down and proper hospital capacity, if they test people that have symptoms and if they deploy resources to vulnerable populations, nursing homes and other designated vulnerable populations where we believe the threat of serious outcomes from the coronavirus is real. Then we also today informed the governors, that we will be deploying CDC teams to every state and every territory in the country to assist them in contact tracing. Governor Jared Polis raised a very good point about the legislation. The president is currently negotiating on Capitol Hill. He recommended that we make sure that the new bill that has some $25 billion in testing resources also cover contact tracing expenses by states. We assured him our administration strongly supports that. We communicated that to the Secretary of the Treasury and the rest of our negotiation team and we’ll be pursuing that.
<01:11:54>
But we were able to tell every one of the governors that we will be deploying teams, we think of 10 or 12 for a start from CDC to reside in all of our states and territories to supervise and work with contractors and others to do the kind of contact tracing. So it’s test people that don’t feel well and they have the coronavirus, keep a careful eye and monitor your vulnerable populations. And when you come across a case, have a team on the ground that can do the immediate contact tracing and testing. And that’s how we restrain and contain the spread of the coronavirus during phase one. And frankly, it’s the beginning of the structure for how we contain the coronavirus going forward.
<01:40:26>
Thanks, everybody.
