<14:50>
No sir.
<33:03>
I’m okay.
<01:15:19>
Let me answer your first question, if I may, because it’s a very good question, and I spoke to Senator Schumer the night before last about just that. When the President signed a Declaration of National Emergency, he stood up FEMA as the lead agency implementing his policy to marshal a whole of government response. And under FEMA, we provide federal support, the state manages the healthcare response, and healthcare providers and first responders implement that response on a local level.
<01:15:54>
Our lead on this issue in implementing it is Administrator Pete Gaynor, but the man managing all of the supplies, and you heard a presentation this weekend about our air bridge, what we also call the control tower, we literally, with Admiral John Polowczyk at the helm of our logistics effort, we have visibility now on all the supplies that are moving across this country and into this country from around the world. It really is extraordinary. I mean, when the President tapped FEMA to lead this effort, we essentially wanted to say we want to organize this in a military fashion, and we tapped really someone who is widely regarded as the number one supplies and logistics military officer to do just that.
<01:16:49>
He really is an extraordinary individual. Admiral Giroir has known him for a long time, and to be working with Admiral Polowczyk, we speak every morning. Our team reviews the data. We go over that with Administrator Gaynor and Admiral Polowczyk. We talk about an extensive team that’s identifying supplies around the country and around the world. And then as we were explaining to governors today, we work with the requests that are coming in from states with a priority on the areas that are dealing with widespread outbreak like the greater New York City area, New Jersey, Louisiana, focus on Detroit, focus on Chicago and Illinois. And then what Pete Gaynor and Admiral Polowczyk are doing is directing those commercial distributors to send the resources directly to the front lines of the battle against the coronavirus.
<01:17:46>
It is an extraordinary system. And as I explained to the governors today, as I’ve explained to congressional leaders who’ve made what I think is a good faith recommendation, that we organize this in a manner of military logistics, it’s exactly what President Trump has done, and it’s what we’re doing every single day to make sure that healthcare workers, to make sure that the states that are dealing with a widespread outbreak coronavirus, can be confident that we’re going to spare no expense, leave no stone unturned, and use this extraordinary apparatus centered in FEMA to get the people of our country what they need when they need it to battle the coronavirus.
<01:39:35>
Thank you, Mr. President. A few updates on the activity of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, then I’m going to ask a Dr. Birx to speak about what we’re seeing in the numbers. We know we are at the beginning of what’s going to be a very tough week in America, but as Dr. Birx will reflect, because the American people have been embracing social distancing, putting into practice the advice of state and local leaders, and the President’s coronavirus guidelines, are for our country. As Dr. Birx will describe, we are not only seeing remarkable progress in Washington state, and in California, where the numbers remain low and steady, that’s a great tribute to the people of both of those states, and to all of their dedicated healthcare workers, but we’re also beginning, we’re beginning to see a leveling, and just at the very beginning, and she’ll reflect on those in just a few moments.
<01:40:46>
A couple of quick updates. At the present moment, the President has approved 50 major disaster declarations, and will likely be issuing a disaster declaration for the state of Minnesota before the end of the day. We’ve distributed more than $4.1 billion to states, and right after our incredible healthcare workers, we couldn’t be more proud of more than 21,000 National Guard that have been activated and are working in states all across the country.
<01:41:17>
During my conference call today, I learned that Governor Brian Kemp is actually using the Georgia National Guard to sanitize and clean up nursing homes. But National Guard are being deployed in a variety of ways all across the country, and to them and to the families of all these citizen soldiers, you have our admiration and our respect.
<01:41:41>
As the President mentioned, our focus remains on the New York metro area, New Jersey, Louisiana, and then Michigan and Illinois. We’re watching every area of the country, but those are the priorities today. And in that spirit, I spoke today, as the President did with Governor Cuomo of New York. The President made the-
<01:42:03>
Did with the Governor Cuomo of New York. The president made the decision to open up the USNS Comfort to COVID patients and he also informed the governor of New Jersey that we would be taking New Jersey COVID patients. So now there will be two facilities, one of the Javits Center that’s all COVID and the USNS Comfort that we’ll be managing COVID patients.
<01:42:26>
At the present moment there… by this evening, there will be a 2,179 medical military personnel in New York city, and over the next two days, that number will rise to 3,000. Speaking with the governor, speaking with Mayor de Blasio, the president and I were informed that while we have surged ventilators, we have surged personal protective equipment, that sending in some relief for healthcare workers was vitally important. And so again, I want to emphasize that those are medical personnel, doctors and nurses and medical assistants who are on the scene now and will continue to arrive to a total number of 3,000.
<01:43:16>
I spoke to Governor Phil Murphy of New Jersey. New Jersey is very much in the forefront of the coronavirus in America today. We want to commend the governor for his extraordinary leadership in the state. During our briefing today, we learned about the progress that they were making and also about the governor’s decision to temporarily reactivate retired healthcare personnel in the state. And just as a reminder of all that we’re dealing with, this weekend, Governor Murphy told me that New Jersey surpassed the number of lives that were lost on September 11th to the state of New Jersey, and it breaks our heart to think of that and our hearts go out to all of the families of the more than 10,000 Americans who have succumbed to the coronavirus.
<01:44:13>
We also, as the president said, we express our gratitude to governors in Oregon and Washington state yesterday for donating ventilators to help the states at the epicenter of the coronavirus. Governor Gavin Newsom of California donated 500 ventilators and I just learned that those will be going… 200 to the state of Maryland, 50 to the district of Columbia, 100 to the state of Delaware, 100 to Nevada, and we’ll also be deploying the remaining 50 to the Northern Marianas Islands and to Guam. And we want thank Governor Gavin Newsom. The state of California has provided extraordinary and compassionate leadership for their citizens. They’re making progress. They’re as the governor said the other day, they’re not out of the woods yet, but the numbers speak for themselves and the generosity of the people of California and the governor is gratefully received.
<01:45:18>
Beyond that before I recognize that Dr. Birx, let me just say that at the beginning of this challenging time, we want to challenge every American to continue to do what every American can do and clearly what we see in Washington and California and what we are just beginning to see elsewhere is put into practice the social distancing recommendations of the coronavirus guidelines for America. Listen to your state and local authorities. We really do believe that while this will be a week of heartache, it also is a week of hope and as we see some of the cases beginning to level just for a day or two, it is our hope that what we have seen begin in the greater New York area and even in Louisiana and elsewhere will become a trend, but it only becomes a trend if every one of us continues to take ownership and continues to do our part for this 30 days to slow the spread.
<01:46:31>
With that, I’ll recognize Dr. Birx for the latest data and then we’ll take questions.
<01:52:11>
Thank you, Deb. And it was Rob spoke several times when the president was with us, so he’ll be here for questions as Deborah Birx will, but Dr. Fauci, your thoughts and then we’ll take some questions.
<01:55:05>
Thanks John. Are there questions for the team?
<02:00:16>
And let me just amplify that from a lay person’s perspective. The American people are doing it. I mean, the initial data, what we’ve seen in California and Washington support fact that the American people are doing these things, which is nothing short of loving your neighbor. I mean the truth is the threat of serious illness for most Americans is relatively low. But the threat of serious illness for seniors with underlying health conditions or anyone with an immunodeficiency is very high. And when we see Americans putting these principles into practice the way you all have been, it really means you’re considering others more important than yourself. And I have to tell you, for the president, for me, for all of us, it’s deeply inspiring. We just need to continue to do it for all of these 30 days and we’ll bring that number down. How about a couple more? Please.
<02:01:39>
Well, the experts told us that somewhere around the middle of this month would be the peak. And as we begin to see a couple of days, but that might be the beginning of leveling. We’re going to watch that carefully and we’re going to bring that information to the president. But for now the decision is, and the request of every American is to continue to put into practice all of the president’s coronavirus guidelines, 30 days to slow the spread and for all of you in areas that have been impacted broadly by the coronavirus, listen to what your state and local authorities are asking you to do. It will protect your health, your family’s health, and it will save lives. Let’s do a couple more and a for our panel if you’d like. Jeff,
<02:02:36>
Yeah, I’d like to know too.
<02:03:34>
How about one more question. We’ll let go.
<02:04:14>
It’s a really good question and let me say the Strategic National Stockpile, and I’m going to have Admiral Giroir to speak about his piece of that, it has been largely deployed. We are continuing to replenish it in part with a small portion of what’s coming in from around the world. You’ve heard about our air bridge, now more than 50 flights that have been scheduled that are bringing millions of supplies into the United States. What we’re doing is taking less than 10% of that, put it into the Strategic National Stockpile so we have that to basically provide for states on an as needed basis. But the other 90%, that system that I just described earlier when the president was here, is working with the six major medical distributors in the country to deploy those resources to New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Louisiana, Michigan, Illinois, the exact priority that you just heard Dr. Birx describe and that the data informs and those decisions are being made every single day.
<02:05:29>
And so while, well, if a hurricane hits Florida or tornadoes or flooding tear through the state of Indiana, we’re very accustomed to FEMA coming in, drawing from the National Stockpile, providing specific resources. In this case with a nationwide effort, what President Trump directed us to do was literally marshal the resources of the full economy to be able to make sure that we can meet the needs for personal protective equipment, ventilators and all manner of supplies. And we’re doing that in a small way through the Strategic National Stockpile, but in the largest way through that control tower system that Admiral John Polowczyk is running for us, that is deploying those resources and making sure they’re going straight to where they need to go.
<02:06:28>
And as I said earlier, those decisions are being informed by the data and they’re literally being made by our team at FEMA on a daily and sometimes hourly basis. And we’ll continue to keep you informed as we did today about where some of those are going. But let me let Admiral Giroir finish that answer.
<02:10:06>
Let me say just by way of closing, because I thought that last question was helpful. We’re interacting with governors every day, seven days a week and we welcome that. And while there are some resources in Strategic National Reserve, we spoke about ventilators. We have some 9,000 ventilators on standby. We also have this vast array through the commercial system that when we hear from governors, we’re identifying the needs. They’re working every day to identify their hospital capacity. We went over governors today saying, “We need to know what your capacity is, what your normal capacity is, what your surge capacity is. We need to understand what your equipment complement is across the state.” And governors have been doing this. They’ve been assembling that information. But I want to tell you, the governors across this country in both political parties had been doing a remarkable job and the president’s grateful and I’m grateful and I just want to know that those health care workers that they’re serving and the families that those healthcare workers are serving can be confident that we are going to do whatever it takes to get them what they need, when they need it. And every governor is working in that regard. Every hospital administrator is working in that regard.
<02:11:32>
And the opportunity that we have because the American people are stepping up so strongly and putting others ahead of themselves. In most cases, they’re acting in a way that puts the health of others first. We’re more confident today than ever before that we’re going to be able to provide our healthcare providers in the states that are impacted with coronavirus with the resources and the support they need to meet this moment. And we’re just going to continue to work our hearts out and make that a reality.
<02:12:11>
But I have to end with just a reference to the healthcare workers. You’ve heard these doctors talk about them. They’re all healthcare people. You’ve heard the president talk about them. You all have seen it. And to think what these healthcare workers, doctors and nurses and medical assistants are doing every day, it inspires us to get up early, to stay up late, to keep working, to make sure they have what they need to be able to continue to do their job courageously. And I know I speak on behalf of every American, when I say how grateful we are for each and every one of you and in this very special holy week, I know millions of Americans are praying for our healthcare workers.
<02:12:57>
I saw a picture that I sent out last night on Twitter. It was an article about a series of cities where doctors and nurses had paused to pray for the patients and the families that they were ministering to. And I just want to say to all those healthcare workers, I know there is a chorus of prayer going up every day for all of you and with your continued courageous service and with God’s help, we’ll get through this and we’ll get through it together. Thank you all.
