<32:24>
<inaudible 00:32:26>.
<35:28>
Thank you, Mr. President. Very productive call today with governors. We talked about the new rollout of testing that we described yesterday and drive-thru and community-based testing. I know how grateful the President is for the efforts that our governors are making and now with the Admiral and the United States Public Health Service as well as FEMA. We’ve made great progress today in coordinating those efforts.
<35:59>
But the other issue that was raised with the President today was personal protective equipment. The reason I mentioned testing is because one of the recommendations that we have for states is that these remote testing sites make a priority of two groups. One would be people over the age of 65 that have symptoms. We don’t want them to go to hospitals or emergency rooms. We want them to go to a remote site in a parking lot or at a isolated community location.
<36:27>
But the other category is our healthcare workers. We want to make sure that our healthcare workers have the opportunity to be tested and using that new high throughput test that the President arranged with our major commercial labs, we’ll be able to do that much more expeditiously. We’re putting a real priority on our extraordinary health care workers that are at this very hour coming alongside that are struggling with the coronavirus and people that are concerned that they may have been exposed.
<36:56>
The other piece is we’re grateful that the legislation passed by the House of Representatives includes liability protection for N95 masks produced by companies like 3M in Minnesota, by Honeywell. Literally tens of millions of masks are produced every year for industrial purposes for construction, but the health experts say they can be used just as readily to protect healthcare workers from respiratory ailments. 3M and other companies were not able to sell those to hospitals, but the President negotiated with the Democratic leadership of the House and Senate. We’ve added a provision to the bill that will literally from one company alone add another 30 million masks per month back to the marketplace.
<37:41>
We’re strengthening the supply chain and healthcare workers around America can be absolutely certain that the President and our entire team are going to continue to put the health of America first and put first our healthcare workers across this country that are meeting the needs of the people of our country.
<59:41>
I’ve not been tested yet. I’m in regular consultation with the White House Physician and he said, I’ve not been exposed to anyone for any period of time ahead of the coronavirus, and that my wife and I have no symptoms. But we’re checking our temperature regularly every day and we’ll continue to follow guidance.
<01:00:02>
Which I think may be a good place to land at the end of the day. And that is as we expand testing rapidly around the country through the new public/private partnership that the president facilitated, we want the test to be available for people who have symptoms. People that who have symptoms and are in vulnerable populations and our healthcare workers to make sure that they can have the peace of mind that they’re doing their jobs and they’re properly protected.
<01:00:33>
And so our best council, the council of the experts is if you have a question, call your doctor, call your healthcare provider, ask whether or not you should be tested. And that’s what my family is doing as well.
<01:00:44>
Let me just emphasize one more point if I can. The president asked the task force to continuously review the data and the information that we have, not only in this country but from around the world. To give the best guidance to state leadership and local healthcare leadership and all of the American people about how to keep themselves, their family and their community safe. This guidance for the next 15 days is what our experts say is the best opportunity we have to lower the infection rate over the entire course of the coronavirus. Just as the president did by suspending travel from China, just as he did with travel advisories and screening from Italy and South Korea. Just as we’ve done with Europe and at midnight tonight with the UK and Ireland.
<01:01:35>
We will continue to take very decisive steps to lower the spread of the coronavirus. But we want every American to know and we would ask all of you in the media to spread the word of the American people. That this is advice on behalf of the President of the United States to every American what you can do over the next 15 days to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. And we’re calling on every American to do your part because together we’ll get through this and we’ll find our way forward.
