<17:05>
MyPillow is a US vertically integrated company, which has been forced to adjust to the changing business environment as a result of the pandemic. MyPillow is uniquely positioned as a US company that functions as a manufacturer, logistics management distributor and direct to consumer.
<17:24>
Given our current business lines, we are experiencing the effects of this pandemic firsthand but MyPillow has done and established internal task force, which is monitoring future needs of companies across the country as a result of this pandemic and given our position, we began to research and develop new protocols to address the current and future needs of US businesses across multiple sectors.
<17:48>
How companies are going to prepare themselves when they once again open up and changes to their current operations in order to adjust to future threats and pandemics. MyPillow has designated some of its call center to help US companies navigate the many issues that resulted from this pandemic.
<18:04>
We’ve dedicated 75% of my manufacturing to produce cotton face masks. I’m up to time, in three days I was up to 10,000 a day. By Friday, I want to be up to 50,000 a day. I’m proud to manufacture our products in the United States and I’m even more proud to be able to serve our nation in this great time of need.
<18:24>
Thank you Mr. President for your call to action which has empowered companies like MyPillow to help our nation win this invisible war. Now, I wrote something off the cuff, if I can read this.
<18:36>
God gave us grace on November 8, 2016, to change the course we were on. God had been taken out of our schools and lives. A nation had turned his back on God and I encourage you to use this time at home to get back in the Word, read our Bibles and spend time with our families. Our president gave us so much hope, where just a few short months ago, we had the best economy, the lowest unemployment and wages going up. It was amazing. With our great president, vice president, and this administration and all the great people in this country praying daily, we will get through this and get back to a place that’s stronger and safer than ever.
