<01:31:07>
I support the president’s leadership under the national emergency declaration that he signed. We’re standing before you today, the first time in American history, when all 50 States have issued emergency declarations and the territories. This is an unprecedented time in the life of the nation. Unfortunately, as the President’s reflected and our health experts will continue to reflect, because the American people have heeded the President’s coronavirus guidelines for America, because state governors have taken those and implemented them even in States where there was not a significant outbreak, and implemented additional measures as we provided them with data about cases and best practices, we’re making real progress as a country. But make no mistake-
<01:32:03>
Well, make no mistake about it. In the long history of this country, the authority of the President of the United States during national emergencies is unquestionably plenary. You can look back through times of war and other national emergencies. And as the president said, we’ll happily brief that. But in the days ahead, what the president’s charged us to do is to work with our health experts. We’re going to bring together an extraordinary group of American business leaders to council the president. And then working with the CDC, we’re going to produce new guidelines based upon the data for every state and territory in this nation. We’re going to give them guidance and as the president’s indicated, we’ll continue to respect the leadership and partnership that we’ve forged with every governor in America, but this is an unprecedented time.
<01:32:58>
But I have to tell you, when you look at the fact, despite the heartbreaking loss of more than 22000 Americans, when you look at the fact of what the health experts told us this could be, I think I only can feel a sense of gratitude to the American people, gratitude to the extraordinary team that has counseled this President, the steps of President Trump has taken, the policies that governors have implemented all across America. We were discussing today at the task force that when you look at the European Union as a whole, they have nearly three times the mortality rate that the United States of America has today, and that is a tribute to our extraordinary healthcare workers, their dedication, their tireless work. But it’s also a tribute to the fact that the American people put into practice the mitigation efforts that the President counseled the nation to do on the advice of our best scientists now more than a month ago. And our hospitals were not overwhelmed and are not overwhelmed at this hour.
<01:34:09>
And I have to tell you, standing here today, I couldn’t be more proud to stand alongside this president and to be a part of this team that has served the American people during this challenging hour. And I’ll just say to you, to every American looking on, as we see the numbers leveling and maybe even beginning to go down, I just encourage you to keep doing what you’re doing. Because of the sacrifices that Americans and American families have made through these mitigation efforts, you’re saving lives and you’re seeing our nation through this time.
<01:34:59>
Governor Phil Murphy and the Governor of Connecticut expressed today that they were going to be speaking on and discussing on a regional basis what their recommendations would be. And we assured them today-
<01:35:11>
We assured them today on our conference call with I think 48 governors that were with us today for the better part of an hour and a half, we told them that what the president would be producing is directed to be produced are additional guidelines for the states, certified by the CDC, that would inform those governors and local communities and mayors about the best way forward based on the unique circumstances that those states and those communities are facing.
<01:35:43>
I think what’s clear is the American people have seen the experience in Washington State, where this really all began for us, and in California, and now the extraordinary challenges in the greater New York City area, including New Jersey and Connecticut, the challenges in New Orleans and Louisiana and Detroit, still Chicago-
<01:36:02>
… New Orleans and Louisiana and Detroit, still Chicago, parts of Houston, but they’re also seeing that in each one of those cases that the mitigation efforts are truly working. So we’ll work with those States, and in some cases it’ll make perfect sense for them to work together on a regional basis.
<01:36:24>
The president will be …
<01:36:26>
I’m sorry, I didn’t hear your question.
<01:36:29>
I didn’t hear what you said. I’m sorry.
<01:36:42>
Let me just affirm what the president said. We heard it again today in what I think was our ninth conference call with governors is I think every American would be proud to see the partnership that this president has forged with governors across the country. It is an extraordinary statement, and you’ll see some data when Adam Polowczyk gets up in just a few moments, but the flow of resources from around the world that we’ve moved into areas that have faced challenges … I mean, this president has directed us to ensure that every state has what they need, when they need it. The spirit that I heard again from republicans and democrat governors today was reflective of that partnership, and as we move forward to the president’s goal of reopening America, we expect the same kind of partnership in the interest of the nation.
<01:43:39>
We’re rapidly increasing the numbers.
<01:55:16>
Thank you, Mr. President. As the president mentioned, the task force today spoke to 48 of the nation’s governors. On that call, we reflected on the fact that all 50 States had emergency declarations in place, which was a first for American history. 5.2 billion dollars had been distributed to the states under the Stafford Act, and it was a productive call and reflective of President Trump’s ongoing direction for us to work closely with the states to make sure the states in the areas most impacted by the coronavirus have what they need when they need it. We spoke about the issue of testing and supplies, and I’m going to ask Dr. Deborah Birx to come forward as well as Admiral Polowczyk to reflect on both of those topics for you.
<01:56:12>
Dr. Birx has been leading an effort from the task force from early on on rapidly expanding testing. It was early on that the president formed that public-private partnership with commercial labs, and as we stand here today, more than a 2.5 million tests have been performed, and when we add in the estimates of labs that we have to assume, with reasonable projections, have not yet reported in to the CDC, we think that number could be closer to three million tests that have been performed.
<01:56:50>
As has been mentioned, the new 15-minute test, we are working closely with Abbott Laboratories that the president and our team met with today here at the White House to rapidly increase the availability of cartridges. Abbott is producing roughly 50,000 cartridges a day. FEMA acquired an initial supply of that and distributed those to the states, but we’re working with the states to not only distribute what’s being made, but also work with other suppliers to create additional cartridges. A point that I’ll ask Dr. Birx to expand on in just a moment is the fact that, beyond the new 15-minute test by Abbott Laboratories, beyond what we expect to be a new antibody test, which may well be approved by the FDA in just a matter of days, and antibody tests that would be produced at the rate of 20 million tests a month.
<01:57:50>
The reality is that those commercial laboratories that the president brought in here the better part of two months ago and initiated that public and private partnership with have been producing hundreds of thousands of tests every single week. But as a Dr. Birx and our team have apprehended, we believe at this point in time that of the Roche equipment that is out there that does the high speed testing, and we informed governors of this today, we think that some 20% of that capacity is not being used. With regard to the Abbott m2000 systems, we told governors today that we think 75% of that laboratory capacity that exists in the United States today is not being utilized by our governors.
<01:58:43>
We sent a very clear message to governors today to reach out to their hospitals, reach out to their labs, to identify the presence of the Roche Amplicore 500 and the Abbott m2000 to get those activated. We literally estimate that, although we’re doing over 110,000 tests a day in the United States, that if our governors and state labs would simply activate the machines that are already there, we could double the amount of testing in the United States literally overnight. I know that governors’ teams watch these briefings, and we’ll remind them very respectfully again to identify those labs. We have a team that now is deploying, reaching out to labs to see if we can activate all of those labs.
<01:59:36>
Secondly, on the subject of supplies, I’ve said it a couple of times from this podium today, but let me say it one more time. President Trump’s direction to us in dealing with the states on personal protective equipment and ventilators has been to make sure the states have what they need when they need it. We recognize that while we all watch the overall curve of the coronavirus in America, understandably the national numbers, the reality is this outbreak has taken place in its own individual curves, first on the West Coast, then the New York City area, then Louisiana, Michigan, and now we continue to contend with it in Chicago and Houston and other metropolitan areas.
<02:00:22>
It has given us the opportunity to ensure that personal protective equipment and ventilators are made available on a critical basis. I have to tell you, we’re incredibly proud of the effort and the partnership with states that has us standing here today that no one who has required a ventilator has been denied a ventilator in the United States of America. At this point, we have just short of 7,000 ventilators in the strategic national stockpile, but as Admiral Polowczyk will detail, we’re already beginning to receive newly manufactured ventilators. We’ll get another thousand in this week. By the middle of May, we’ll literally have another 8,000 ventilators available for deployment around the country.
<02:01:12>
I’m going to let him describe to you the specific detailing of those resources, but I want to share these numbers most especially for care workers around the country in the areas most impacted by the coronavirus so that you know the resources are surging into the hospital systems at the point of the need, and we will continue to do just that. Let me recognize a Dr. Birx to reflect on the data and also on maybe some comments on testing, and then, Admiral Polowczyk, can you just step up, and then you’ll describe supplies. We’ll hear from Dr. Fauci again and then take a few questions.
<02:12:07>
Great. I’m going to call in <inaudible 02:12:11> up in a minute, but I have to call on Dr. Tony Fauci and let me just say something really straight from my heart if I can. I lost my dad 32 years ago today. April 13th is always a tough day for our family. And this morning when my brothers and sisters were sending around pictures of dad like we always do, I just thought of the families of the more than 22,000 Americans that we’ve lost. And I just want to tell you that you’re on our hearts and you’re in the prayers of millions of Americans as you deal with this heart breaking loss. As well as families that have family members that are struggling with serious illness. But let me just encourage everyone that in the midst of that loss because the American people have been putting these mitigation measures into practice there are families that are still together today.
<02:13:21>
And I just want to encourage you here at roughly the halfway point of 30 days to slow the spread, to take that to heart. In no way minimize the losses that we’ve experienced as a nation and as families but to be encouraged to know when you see those numbers on the vast majority of States that because of what the American people are doing, it’s working. And Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx and the entire team continually ask us to remind the American people and we do so again today, keep doing what you’re doing with the 30 days to slow the spread and we will hasten the day that we heal our land. Dr Fauci.
<02:15:49>
Thank you Tony. Have Admiral Polowczyk get an update on supplies and then we’ll take a few questions.
<02:21:40>
All right, great job. Thank you Admiral and can we put that slide, I guess it’s still up. This is for just the week ending April 11. We have distributed or directed the distribution of 5.3 million N95 masks, 5.5 million surgical masks, 110 million gloves. We share that mostly just to make sure our healthcare workers know that the resources are flowing. We’re going to continue to flow them, but this is just the numbers for this week. And don’t include for instance what the president announced. I was able to tell governor Tom Wolf of Pennsylvania today that next week they’ll be receiving two million N95 masks to support some of the healthcare challenges that they’re facing in the broader Philadelphia area. So with that we’ll be happy to take a couple of questions. Go ahead.
<02:28:11>
One more.
<02:28:21>
Well we spoke with Abbott laboratories today about how we can increase significantly the production of cartridges for the 15 minute test. Because remember we’re not only scaling to rapidly expand testing across the country today. And it’s one of the reasons why you heard me and Dr. Birx say that we have an entire team now that’s going to be working with governors and with laboratories around the country to identify the machines that already exist today and that could be activated and doing tests. But we also want to work with Abbott laboratories for the longer term because if the current trend lines hold and I hope and I literally pray that we will soon find ourselves on the down slope of the coronavirus in this country. This epidemic in its current form will come to an end, but as we make decisions and in the days ahead to reopen America what president Trump also wants to do is have a policy in place to stay open.
<02:29:33>
And having the kind of surveillance testing available around the country so that CDC can do the immediate contact tracing when you have a positive test so that we can deploy resources like the new Abbott 15 minute test specifically to nursing homes. We spoke today to governor Baker in Massachusetts, governor Hogan in Maryland, both of whom have been very innovative implementing federal guidelines for preventing the spread of infectious disease at nursing homes. And we commend them for that, but being able to increase the manufacture of those devices so they can be deployed going forward in the months ahead is also a focal point of our efforts. So rapidly continuing to expand testing today and the governor of Louisiana told me today that they have tested at the highest per capita according to his numbers of any state in the union. We congratulate him for that, but making sure that going forward we’ll have the infrastructure of testing all across America to deal with the coronavirus should it return in the future. With that, let me bid you all a good evening. We will be back tomorrow.
<02:31:04>
Yeah, let me let Dr. Birx address that. But there was an initial traunch that we purchased. There’s some 18,000 Abbott laboratory machines around the country. And FEMA acquired a certain amount that were immediately distributed across the states, but now Abbott laboratories is literally producing some 50,000 a day. Those are available on the open market and we’re also going to be working with Abbott and with the states to deploy those resources. And we’re also working with other manufacturers to increase the production of cartridges. But if there’s more to that do you want to add <inaudible 02:31:45>.
<02:33:10>
Let me just again say thank you all for your time and attention and thanks to every American who’s joined us tonight. I just want to encourage you, we’re going to continue to lean into this effort to expand testing across the country to deploy supplies to our incredible healthcare workers that have done such an amazing job in the midst of the coronavirus epidemic. But my last word on behalf of the president and on behalf of our entire task force is 30 days to slow the spread. And I know we’re almost at the halfway point and I know it’s been a month of these mitigation strategies. But I hope as you look on, as you see the progress that’s made on the West coast, the beginnings of real progress in the greater New York city area, Louisiana, Detroit and elsewhere. I hope it will only still your resolve to continue to do your part to slow the spread. Because we’ll get through this, but it’ll take all of us to continue to do it. So thank you the American people for all your efforts and we’ll see you tomorrow.
