(12:56)
Thank you, Mr. President. Let me begin as the President did by expressing our deepest condolences to the family of the woman in Washington state who has lost her life to the coronavirus. I want to assure that family that they’re on the hearts of every American and those that are continuing to struggle, in some cases in ICU units, can be assured of the prayers of millions of Americans. From the moment that this country learned of the spread of the coronavirus, President Donald Trump took decisive action, established the White House Coronavirus Task Force. And as the President just described, the President took unprecedented action to suspend all travel into the United States from China. Simply had never been done before by any previous administration. It is among the reasons why the threat to Americans of coronavirus remains low despite today’s tragic news from Washington state. The task force met this morning and brought the President a range of options and at his direction we will be doing the following.
(14:16)
First, the President authorized action today to add additional travel restrictions on Iran. We will be using section 212(f), on banning travel from Iran. Iran is already under a travel ban, but we are expanding existing travel restrictions to include any foreign national who has visited Iran within the last 14 days. In addition to moving Iran, we are going to increase to the highest level of advisory, which is level four advising Americans do not travel to specific regions in Italy and South Korea. Let me say again, the President today has authorized the State Department to increase the travel advisory for Americans to level four. We are urging Americans to not travel to the areas in Italy and the areas in South Korea that are most affected by the coronavirus. The President has also directed the State Department to work with our allies in Italy and in South Korea to coordinate a screening, a medical screening, in their countries of any individuals that are coming in to the United States of America and we look forward to working with them in a collaborative and a cooperative way.
(15:44)
Now, with regard to the task force, I’m just a few days into this job, but I can tell you having spent time with these extraordinary professionals that the President just alluded to. Having spoken directly to more than a dozen governors, including Governor Jay Inslee this morning in Washington state, I think every American would be proud to know what I’ve heard about the work of HHS, the work of CDC, the work of all of our agencies.
(16:12)
At the President’s direction, this team has been working seamlessly with health officials at the state and local level, and I can assure the American public that we will continue to live out the President’s admonition a few days ago, that we’re all in this together. And as we work with members of Congress, I’ve had the opportunity to speak with Republican and Democrat leadership in the Congress, we’ll be working very closely on a supplemental funding bill to make sure that not only do all these agencies have the resources that they require, but we’ll also make sure that that state and local health officials have the resources and the reimbursement to take such actions that are necessary to protect the health of the American people.
(16:55)
The President mentioned masks this morning. We’ve talked a great deal about additional medical supplies. Let me be very clear and I’m sure the physicians who are up here will reflect this as well. The average American does not need to go out and buy a mask. But this administration is going to always put first our patients first and second, we’re going to make sure and protect the health of our healthcare providers. As the President said, we have more than 40 million masks available today. We’ve contracted now with 3M, 35 million more mass per month will be produced and we’re also going to be working with other manufacturers. In addition to that, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response will be announcing today courses of action to increase the availability of masks, as well as prioritizing availability to high-risk health care workers, modifying guidance and developing a whole of nations communications plan. President-
(18:03)
A whole of nations communications plan. The president wants us to be certain that our health care providers have the support they need to do their job and to do their job safely. With that, I’m going to yield the podium to the secretary of health and human services and then we’ll hear from some of our medical experts, but let me assure every American at President Trump’s direction, this is an all hands on deck effort and while the risks to Americans remain low, the president’s actions today, with regard to Iran, with regard to Italy and with South Korea and with regard to making medical supplies more available, I hope gives evidence to the fact that at his direction, we’re going to continue to lean into this effort and put the health and safety of the American people first. Mr. Secretary.
(43:38)
We’re expedited.
(45:37)
Sure. Thank you Mr President. When I was governor of the state of Indiana, we actually had two experiences with the spread of infectious diseases. The first was in 2014 when Indiana was where the very first MERS case in the United States arrived. Obviously an infectious disease, much more deadly than the coronavirus that we’re dealing with today. It was then when I was governor that I learned of the extraordinary capabilities of CDC. I worked with my health officials in the state of Indiana, worked with federal officials, and maybe most importantly, learned the invaluable role that local health officials play in dealing with the spread of infectious disease.
(46:20)
I’m proud to say that the state of Indiana secured that patient, found out everyone they’d ever contacted. There were no additional infections and that patient recovered. There was only one other MERS disease. The other incident was in 2015. We had an outbreak of HIV in a very small town that emerged in early 2015. My health officials came to me, we immediately deployed health resources, but the truth was is HIV AIDS was being spread by people sharing needles and intravenous drug use. And the state of Indiana did not allow for providing a needle exchange to citizens. But the CDC came in and made a recommendation and I declared a public health emergency and made for 30 days a needle exchange available in the state of Indiana.
(47:13)
And I’m proud to say that every one of those patients was treated. We ended the spread of the HIV AIDS virus in that community. But again, as I’ve said before, I think as President and I have discussed, I think my experience as a governor dealing with two different infectious diseases and seeing the vital role that local healthcare providers play, that federal officials play, has really informed me. It’s one of the reasons why I’ve been spending a lot of time talking to governors. I met yesterday with state health officials and the governor in Florida. And I’m proud of the work that did in the state of Indiana and I hope to continue to bring all of the best minds together to deal with this issue.
