<26:08>
Thank you Mr. President and good morning. It should be very clear to the American people that President Trump has initiated not only a whole of government approach, but a whole of America approach. And the president’s interaction even today and through the course of this day with leaders in industry around the country reflects that we’re not only bringing the full weight of the federal government to bear, but the full weight of the American economy. And I know I speak on behalf of the president when I say how inspired we are at the way the American people have stepped up and the way that American businesses, large and small, have stepped up. It’s truly been inspiring.
<26:44>
Our task force met this morning. We continue to focus on President Trump’s priorities of testing, prevention and supplies. And in that category, I’m pleased to report that while testing is available in all 50 states as the president just indicated, through the swift action of the FDA at the encouragement of-
<27:03>
Syndicated through the swift action of the FDA at the encouragement of governors around the country. Now a state health authorities can authorize labs in their state and expand existing testing capabilities. But also in connection with the FDA’s action which we’ll hear more about in a moment, we now have continued to expand the public and private partnership that the president forged with vast commercial laboratories around the country, increasing access to the high volume, high throughput Coronavirus testing that is greatly expanding access even as we speak.
<27:39>
Also our task force received a report this morning on the progress that the US Public Health Service and FEMA are making, working closely with state governments and also partners in the private sector like CVS, Target, Walgreen and Walmart to expand remote testing sites around the country and we’ll have a full report later this week as those come online.
<28:02>
It’s important the American people understand the testing is happening all over the country but all of our health experts wanted me to tell the American people, you don’t need the results of testing to know what you should do and President Trump’s 15 day coronavirus guidelines, our advice for every American, in every community. They’re the result of the best guidance of CDC and our health experts and as the president said, we continue to urge every American over the next 15 days, to put into practice the principles in the president’s Coronavirus Guidelines.
<28:40>
By every American practicing these principles, we believe that we can slow the spread of the Coronavirus. In fact, our experts have told our task force that if every American acts on the president’s Coronavirus guidelines, we could see a substantial reduction in the spread of the Coronavirus. But as the president said, it will take all of us to do it.
<29:04>
So if you feel sick, stay home. If someone in your house tests positive, keep the entire household home, especially if you’re a person with an underlying health condition, we urge you to stay home and practice social distancing from people; no social gatherings of more than 10 people, use drive through as the president discussed with leaders in the industry today and every American, especially practicing common sense and good hygiene.
<29:29>
For the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low but we’re asking every American to partner with us in this effort to slow the spread of the virus and especially to be mindful of seniors or others with serious underlying health conditions for whom the threat of the Coronavirus can be very significant and very real.
<29:53>
As I said, the president has continued to push our task force to bring a whole of government, a whole America approach and we continue to be inspired the way our nation’s governors, nation’s businesses are responding. We spoke just yesterday with the leaders of every broadcast network in America that will soon be unveiling a public service campaign using CDC guidelines and specifically, as we work on the issue of supplies, meetings yesterday with Department of Defense officials about excess supplies.
<30:23>
The president and I will be meeting today to speak about the supply chain for hospitals. We would make one specific request and that is we would urge construction companies to donate their inventory of N95 masks to your local hospital and forgo additional orders of those industrial masks because of what the president asked to be included in legislation moving through the Congress today, those industrial masks that they use on construction sites, are perfectly acceptable for healthcare workers to be protected from a respiratory disease. But we’re asking construction companies that our president knows very well from his background, we’re asking them to donate their N95 masks to their local hospitals and also forego making additional orders.
<31:10>
At the president’s direction we will continue to do whatever it takes. We’ll continue to marshal the best of the American people, the best of all the people behind me, the people behind them, our state and local officials and we will get through this and we will get through this together. Thank you. Mr. President.
<47:14>
If I could amplify.
<47:17>
The president directed us to work with the Department of Defense. There’s two ways that DOD can be helpful in terms of expanding medical capacity. I know the Governor of New York has asked us to look at the Army Corps of Engineer, which could perhaps renovate existing buildings, but the president also has us inventorying what you all would understand is field hospitals or MASH hospitals that can be deployed very quickly.
<47:42>
We spoke with a governor Inslee yesterday in Washington state. We have resources in that part of the country that we could move and as governors make these requests, we will process them, bring them to the president.
<47:54>
But there are two different lanes that VOD can provide, in addition to many medical supplies to augment our national reserves and the president has tasked us to evaluate and make available and to consider every request from governors for either field hospitals, expanding facilities or the Army Corps of Engineer that could retrofit existing buildings.
<01:04:55>
It’s coming on line every day.
<01:09:32>
I think it’s all a work in progress. What President Trump has made clear to industries around the country is that we’re going to do whatever it takes. We understand this is an extraordinary moment in the life of our nation. It’s the reason why the President brought in leaders of the financial sector, the airline industry. He’ll meet with all additional industry leaders today in tourism and hospitality. But he has tasked the Secretary of the Treasury to work with members of Congress in both parties to make sure that we construct the kind of economic support that will allow those industries to weather the period of the coronavirus and then to come back stronger than ever before.
<01:10:21>
It’s true.
<01:23:47>
Well, I think the question about the actions that the president’s authorized beginning in January when he took the unprecedented step of suspending all travel from China, the efforts to issue travel advisories for portions of Italy and South Korea and then to begin screening all the passengers, the efforts regarding suspending travel from Europe and what went into effect at midnight last night, adding the UK and Ireland to that have all been informed by the experts that are surrounding us. What the president’s asked us to do from the very beginning as a Dr. Burks and Dr. Fauci often say is let’s follow the data, bring the president the best options in response to what is actually happening on the ground.
<01:24:33>
But with regard to yesterday’s 15-day slow the spread plan, our team unanimously brought to the president these very strong recommendations for every American because we truly believe we are at a point in this epidemic in our country when we can reduce the number of people that actually are exposed to or contract the coronavirus. But we’ll continue to bring the best data, the best evidence, and the best recommendations, frankly, of the best health experts in the world, and the president will continue to make decisions that put the health of America first.
<01:42:45>
Thank you all.
