<01:02:49>
Well, good evening everyone, and thank you Mr. President, White House Coronavirus Taskforce have met today. We continue at the president’s direction to focus on slowing the spread of the Coronavirus through mitigation, expanded testing, and ensuring that our healthcare workers have the supplies that they need. With cases now in all 50 states, and more than 50% of cases in the New York area. It’s more important than ever to adhere to the guidance of state and local authorities. And for every American, the best thing that you can do, young or old is put into practice the President’s Coronavirus Guidelines For America. It is the way that each of us can do our part. Since we last spoke, as you all know, the president signed the Coronavirus Aid Relief Economic Security Act. This makes direct payments available to American families. The average family of four would receive a direct payment of some $3,400. It also covers payroll for small businesses across the country for a period of several months, so that even if the business is closed, they can continue to have a loan which would be completely forgiven if they keep their whole team on the payroll.
<01:04:13>
There’s support for critical industries, for hospitals, and for states as well. As of this evening, the president has issued 12 major disaster declarations most recently for the states of Maryland, and Missouri. And on the subject of vaccines, Emory University in Atlanta today began enrolling volunteers in a phase one clinical trial of another possible vaccine for the Coronavirus. On the subject of testing, testing is available in all 50 states, and as a great credit to our partnership with commercial laboratories across the country, this morning it was reported that more than 685,000 tests have already been performed, and we are particularly grateful to the American Hospital Association, whose members are now reporting in to the CDC and FEMA in realtime, giving our experts more visibility on those that have contracted the disease around the country.
<01:05:18>
The president mentioned this, but it’s worth mentioning again, Apple has a new app out. It is a screening tool that’ll help Americans determine whether they should be tested. It has a easy format, question and answer. If you have issues about whether or not a test is appropriate for you, you can use the new Apple app to accomplish that as well. On the subject of supplies, the president spoke about the priority that we’re placing on personal protective equipment, and especially ventilators, and I will not add to that. I can tell you that this weekend, we’ll be reporting on aggressive efforts that our Supply Stabilization Task Force at FEMA is taking to import medical supplies from around the world. We’re working as we speak on an air lift from a number of countries around the globe, to deliver very important medical protective equipment to the United States. At the present moment, you’ve heard the numbers, but from the strategic national stockpile, we distributed more than seven million N95 respirators, or masks, almost three million face shields, more than 8,000 ventilators, and donations to the Strategic National Supply.
<01:06:42>
We’ve mentioned Apple donating some nine million masks that can be used by healthcare workers, but Merck recently announced plans to donate 500,000 masks, USPAS, 500,000 masks. And a little company called Puritan in Maine is actually in the business now of manufacturing swabs, so businesses large and small all across America are rising to the challenge. As the president noted, he will attend the embarkation of the US Navy ship Comfort tomorrow from Norfolk, the US and Navy ship Mercy arrived in Los Angeles today. We will continue to focus resources and supplies on those areas around the country that have seen significant outbreak. But let me send a word to hospital workers around the country. We continue to hear anecdotally, and occasionally see in media reports people who have concerns that their hospital may be running short on personal protective equipment in the days ahead. We just encourage you to alert your hospital administrator. Hospital administrators, please alert your state health director.
<01:07:53>
Tonight, administrator Gaynor at FEMA will be speaking to all of the state emergency directors in America to talk about the availability of resources, but also encouraging them to have a plan to perhaps even use their National Guard to move medical equipment from storehouses to hospitals. We’ll be working very closely with state emergency managers on issues of logistics. But today, we’re fortunate to be joined by two members of the cabinet who have been very busy making sure that the children of America have the meals that they need while school has been suspended in so many places around the country. Secretary Devos and secretary Perdue are going to share some exciting news, and progress that we’ve made in feeding children who need nutrition assistance while schools are closed. The truth is, many underprivileged kids would not be getting school meals, apart from the fact that as we stand here today, our administration has approved waivers for all 50 states to give them flexibilities to work with local partners to get meals to children that are in need, and also a nationwide waiver to allow parents to pick up meals.
<01:09:05>
But what’s most exciting today, as our two cabinet secretaries will reflect, we have private sector partners, a few of whom are with us today, who are helping us speed important meals to children, and to families around the country. You’ll hear in a few moments from the chairman of McLean Global Logistics, and also the CEO of Panera Bread about the work that they are both doing to literally deliver millions of meals to American families. It’s truly an inspiring story, and I look forward to hearing it from them, and sharing it with you. But it’s just one more example, as President Trump said, that we’ll get through this, and we’ll get through this together. Not only a whole of federal government approach, working with all of our state partners, working with healthcare authorities at the local level, but also working with businesses that have been willing to step up, and stand at the point of the need, and be there for the most vulnerable and help us meet the needs of our children, and of our families. And on behalf of the president, a grateful nation, we thank you.
<01:26:09>
Outstanding. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you for your business’s incredible generosity, and I’ll actually allow the two business leaders to step out, if you’d like. We appreciate you so very much, on behalf of the President and a grateful nation.
<01:26:27>
Before we go to questions, I’m going to invite Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauchi to step forward with a few reflections on what we’re seeing in the data. As you all are aware, over the next several days, our team will be assembling recommendations for the President to give further guidance to the American people, to states around the country, and they can both share with you the importance of ongoing efforts of mitigation by every American, the need to support what state and local leaders’ guidance is to every American community, but also, as Dr. Birx continues to work carefully with the modeling, analyzing the data, she’ll reflect on the progress that’s been made in that. Deborah?
<01:32:24>
Great. We’ll take a few questions.
<01:37:34>
Let me say good evening to each one of you. I trust this was helpful. We’ll continue to keep you informed. Over the course of the weekend, the President will be traveling to Norfolk for the embarkation of the US Navy ship Comfort. Our task force will be meeting through the course of the weekend, and we’ll be reviewing the data and preparing recommendations for the American people, going forward. But thank you all for your time and attention.
