<55:59>
We’ll do questions involving Dr. Fauci.
<01:00:48>
Tony, you can take a question. Go ahead.
<01:08:26>
I can speak to that, too.
<01:08:28>
I’ll go to John for a second. I can speak to that.
<01:08:30>
The President sent a letter to all the governors today indicating that, as every American recognizes, that the importance of 15 days to slow the spread… that we’re approaching day 15. And what the president told the governors, that we’re going to listen to the very best health experts in the world, we’re going to examine that data very carefully and we’ll be presenting this weekend, the President, a range of recommendations and additional guidance for going forward.
<01:09:03>
The President’s made it clear that, in his words, he wants to open the country up, but we’re going to do that responsibly, and as the President told the governors today, we’ll do that based on the data. John, one last one.
<01:09:15>
I’ll just go to John, <inaudible 00:15:16].
<01:09:35>
Well, first, let me just say again how grateful the President and I, and I know governors across the country are, for the extraordinary bi-partisan work that’s been done on Capitol Hill, not just in the bill that will be taken up by the House of Representatives tomorrow, but in legislation last week that extended paid family leave; free coronavirus testing to every American; made sure that all the agencies at every level of the federal government had the resources to meet this moment. It’s really been a very inspiring time.
<01:10:07>
But what the president’s made clear to our governors, we’re going to do whatever it takes. And already, we’re hearing from some governors about the need for additional resources, and we will evaluate those very carefully, and I think the Secretary of the Treasury has already indicated, and Congressional leadership has already indicated a willingness to remain open to that. The American people know we’re all in this together, and the unity that you see on Capitol Hill, the unity that this President has marshaled among governors all across this country and our States and territories will continue to drive forward, and we’re going to make sure the people on the front lines… our healthcare workers and the people that are serving them… make sure our state governments, make sure every agency of the federal government have everything we need to put the health of America first. We’ll see you back here tomorrow. Thank you all.
