<24:07>
Thank you, Mr. President.
<24:10>
The White House Coronavirus Task Force met today, but we also convened, at the president’s direction, a conference call with the nation’s governors, and we focused on efforts at mitigation, at testing and supplies. We discussed the president’s or recent approval of disaster declarations for Washington, and California, and New York, but we also assured governors who’ve submitted major disaster declarations that we will be reviewing them in an expeditious manner to ensure the full resources of the federal government are brought to bear. The president wanted us to make it clear that the federal government will do whatever it takes to support an effort that is locally executed, state managed and federally supported. We reiterated that to our governors today, listened to them about their specific needs, and frankly made it clear to them that while the president has published at coronavirus.gov the 15 days to slow the spread for every American, and millions of Americans are addressing these common sense guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the days ahead, we made it clear to the governors that this president and this administration fully supports decisions that governors are making in communities and states that are particularly impacted by the spread of the coronavirus and we are grateful for their efforts.
<25:43>
We also spoke to the governors about the importance of the legislation that is currently being negotiated on Capitol Hill and asked them to encourage members of the House and the Senate to move very quickly. The bill that is currently being negotiated, the president said that he believes will be resolved soon. We’re encouraged by it. We’ll speed direct payments to families. The average family of four will receive $3,000 directly. There’ll be payroll subsidies for small businesses around America to keep people on the payroll while they might be required to stay home, unemployment insurance benefits, assistance to hospitals and major industries, and we continue to urge the Congress to act and ask the governors to engage their delegations.
<26:32>
On the subject of testing, we reiterated our thanks to states across the country that are rapidly expanding testing at drive through sites and at community sites, and as Dr. Birx just reflected, because of the unprecedented public and private partnership that the president initiated with our commercial labs we stand here today with 313,000 tests having been completed with the test results delivered to Americans, and still somewhat more than 41,000 have contracted coronavirus, but the state run effort is continuing to receive the full support of our team at FEMA and at the US Public Health Service. We’re deploying personnel, we’re deploying resources, and testing is literally expanding around the country by the hour. As Dr. Birx also mentioned, the FDA has been in the process of reviewing less invasive methods of testing. The president and I both reflected on the fact that we have been tested, and we’ve been working with the FDA to make it possible for self collected nasal swabs where individuals could, at the end of their nasal passage, collect a sample, and I’m pleased to report that self collected swabs can now be collected in clinics and at drive through testing sites …
<28:03>
Self-collected swabs can now be collected in clinics and at drive-thru testing sites. This will expedite the testing process, of course, but it will also reduce the risk to healthcare providers for exposure to the coronavirus and it will minimize the drain on personal protective equipment. With the current test that goes pretty significantly up the nasal passage, people have to wear gear and then change out the gear. This new self-administered test will actually not require the drain on personal protective equipment. It’s all a part of our effort, as Admiral Polowczyk will discuss in just a few moments, to meet the supply needs that we have across the country, but to meet them with efforts at conservation as well.
<28:50>
On the subject of testing, it’s important to remember as the old book says, “It is not the healthy who need a doctor but the sick.” And so if you don’t have symptoms, you don’t need to get a coronavirus test. We encourage every American to adhere to that so that the testing resources are available for people that are symptomatics.
<29:13>
We also will be issuing today from Health and Human Services new guidance to direct all commercial labs to prioritize testing for hospitalized patients, and that guidance is going out tonight. We also reminded the governors today that all state laboratories, all hospital laboratories are now required by law to report the results of coronavirus tests to the CDC.
<29:40>
On the subject of supplies in our meeting today at FEMA, we received a report of the new supply chain stabilization task force. Rear Admiral John Polowczyk is leading that up at FEMA and the task force is working to identify medical supplies that exist in the marketplace today to evaluate the national stockpile and also working with industries around the country to produce even more of the critical medical supplies.
<30:11>
And as the president said, businesses across America are stepping up, and maybe as never before in our history. 3M, in fact, has diverted 500,000 N95 masks from commercial customers and they’re being delivered today to New York and Seattle. Facebook, we would acknowledge is donated their emergency reserve of over 700,000 N95 masks to healthcare workers, and these are just a few examples of the generosity of businesses.
<30:40>
We’re also seeing companies step forward to repurpose their manufacturing facilities to create ventilators to create equipment. And I know I speak for the President, when I say how grateful and proud we are for that.
<30:54>
We also discussed with the governors a real breakthrough on the availability of ventilators. We called on the governors to survey all outpatient surgical centers and hospital operating rooms because surgical ventilators that anesthesiologists use because of an FDA decision rendered this last weekend, those can be easily converted now to ventilators that can be used for people struggling with severe illness from the coronavirus. And so we called on our governors and conversations with state leaders to survey all of their surgical centers and hospital operating rooms to identify that equipment. And with the new FDA guidelines, they’ll be able to convert those to help meet the needs of ventilators across the country.
<31:45>
We are now eight days into the President’s 15 days to slow the spread. The American people are rising to the challenge. We’re doing this. But in the days that remain between now and the end of the 15 days, we’re going to need every American to take this seriously. Listen to your state and local health authorities where there may be additional and stronger guidance in areas where the coronavirus spread has been more severe.
<32:09>
But for every American know that the part that you do, that your family does, that you do in your community to put into practice these principles of social distancing, using a drive through at the local restaurant, will make an enormous difference in lowering the trajectory of the coronavirus spreading across our country. It’s going to take all of us, but with the ongoing cooperation of the American people with compassion, with the ingenuity of American industry, with dedicated leadership at the state and federal level, I know that we can slow the spread, we can protect our most vulnerable and we will heal our land.
<01:28:16>
Yes. Thank you for the question. I spoke to the secretary of education today and we’re going to have her at the podium very soon. The department of education has created a very easy waiver application for every state. It’s virtually an automatic application for states that want to be excused from national standardized testing requirements. We reviewed that with all of the governors today and also what’s called distance learning, the accreditation process for higher education. The secretary of education at the president’s urging has loosened the rules around distance learning. You’re seeing many colleges and universities embracing distance learning now putting it into practice, we’ve allowed for that. But also the department of education is setting up a website and best practices information for K through 12 distance learning and she actually told me that the state of Florida and New Hampshire are really setting the pace on distance learning for K-12.
<01:29:24>
My wife is an elementary school teacher. Obviously there’s different challenges for distance learning for K through 12 students, particularly younger kids. But the department of education is determined to continue to make those best practices available. We talked about the website that’s being built and she’ll be coming in and making a presentation on that because as the president reflected a little bit ago as, Dr. Burkes did. We understand there’s a lot of kids out of school, but parents are anxious. A lot of kids out of college and university. Like my daughter who’s has been dismissed from the what remains of this semester of grad school, bu it’s still doing the work and the department of education is working earnestly to make that a reality.
<01:30:16>
I’m sorry.
<01:30:16>
Yes, I’ll have her here this week. I mean given the issues that we were dealing with today with the attorney general, we thought it might be just as timely in a few days. With regard to the guidance that you asked about the president’s coronavirus task force is in the process of reviewing recommendations from CDC. We’re working with the Department of Homeland Security. We’ll be bringing those to the president as recommendations of approval. We’re specifically looking at people that work in critical infrastructure, people in law enforcement, people in critical transportation.
<01:30:56>
You can go right now to the department of Homeland security’s website for a very useful definition of critical infrastructure. If you look at the second page of 15 days to slow the spread, you’ll see the president’s recommendation for this 15 days is for people to stay home from work whenever possible except for people working in critical infrastructure. The guidance that we’re looking forward to unpacking is how people who may have come into contact with someone that test positive coronavirus would be able to, if they have no symptoms, would be able to return to work, wear a mask for a certain period of time, but otherwise go back to business. It’s a focus on critical infrastructure jobs. We should have that guidance before the president and before the public tomorrow.
<01:33:59>
The FDA just announced that decision and my understanding is that they’ll be now going directly to market. I’ll have a good estimate for you on timeline. But and what the president has charged us to do at the task force is to promote as much creativity and as much innovation as possible. Frankly, Dr. Hahn as the president said at the FDA has done a remarkable job going through the review and approval process for these new methodologies. Really in record time. We reflected a little bit ago about the fact that we’re pretty sure we set a record, I think it was 62 days to be in the phase one clinical trials of a vaccine that’s actually in clinical trials today.
<01:34:53>
But this new approval from a study done by United Health Group and the Gates Group means that now self collected nasal swabs will become available. We’re going to be working through FEMA with governors around the country to make sure and distribute those, those methods as well as the swabs or any other supporting material and get those into this vast array of labs that are now stood up around the country.
