<39:25>
Thank you, Mr. President. White House Coronavirus Task Force met today. And despite the fact that there’ve been more than 843,000 Americans who contracted the Coronavirus and we grieve the loss of more than 47,000 of our countrymen, according to Dr. Birx and her team, we continue to see encouraging signs. Because the American people had been putting into practice the guidance that’s been issued by the President and this task force, and they’ve been taken to heart and the guidance of state and local officials. And Mr. President as we learned today, we are continuing to see declines in all the major metro areas around the country that had been most impacted.
<40:16>
Numbers remain low and steady on the West coast, in Washington State and in California. The New York metro area, New Jersey, Connecticut all appear to be past their peak. And as our scientists may reflect in a few moments, we also are seeing the positive rate going down. Which is, actually, even as encouraging as the declining cases. The Detroit metro area appears to be past its peak. Seattle metro area, as I mentioned, remains stable. New Orleans metro area is the most stable of all the large metro outbreaks. We also are continuing to see a stabilization and even declines in Houston, and Atlanta, and Nashville, and Baltimore, and Indianapolis, and elsewhere.
<41:03>
This is a tribute to the American people. To the fact that the American people have taken to heart the guidelines, the social distancing, the personal hygiene, the recommendation that you use the drive through at a restaurant rather than going in a restaurant, and avoiding groups of more than 10. On the President’s behalf, on behalf of our entire White House Coronavirus Task Force, we just want to urge all of the American people to continue onward.
<41:31>
We all want to reopen America, and we want to reopen our States and our communities as soon as it is safe and responsible to do so. But I want to say to my countrymen, the fastest way to reopen America is to continue to do what you’ve been doing. It’s the fastest way, as President Trump has said many times, to get our country working again is to put the coronavirus in the past. And we are on our way to doing just that.
<42:01>
Early on, the President called forth not only the full power of the Federal Government, but he called forth the full weight of the American economy. And I had the privilege yesterday to travel to Madison, Wisconsin, and see American industry and American workers at their very best. I want to thank the GE Healthcare team in Wisconsin, as well as the union machinists that I spent time with all day yesterday. It was extraordinary, Mr. President, earlier this month you used the Defense Production Act to ensure that supplies could flow to GE, and General Motors, and Ford, and other companies that were prepared to repurpose manufacturing lines and hire new workers to construct ventilators.
<42:48>
At this particular plant, the Machinist Union sat down and in less than one week negotiated a new contract with GE Healthcare that allowed them to begin to bring in workers from around the country. They doubled their work line in one a week. They’re about to triple it. They’ve been going 24 hours a day, three shifts, seven days a week. And the President promised that by harnessing the power of the American economy we would have 100,000 ventilators in 100 days. But thanks to the ingenuity and the hardworking Americans that I was with yesterday and other companies, we’re actually going to have 110, 000 ventilators in 100 days. They were all wearing T-shirts, Mr. President, I brought one back for you that simply read, “Union Machinist’s Save Lives.” To that great team of GE Healthcare I want to just say all of America is proud of you and grateful for you.
<43:47>
We’re also grateful to all of our healthcare workers at every level and all the work that they’re doing. And we’re proud that our National Guard and our American military are at their side. As our task force learned today, more than 31,000 National Guard have been stood up around the country. The President, in the last day, extended what’s called Title 32 Authorizations for all National Guard personnel through May 31. So we’re going to continue to partner with States as the National Guard plays a vital role in testing and in cleaning nursing homes and in standing up state’s response. Military personnel, Mr. President, we have more than a 5,500 active duty military personnel. Including, as of yesterday, 964 medical professionals in the uniform of the United States working in 17 hospitals in 7 States around the country.
<44:40>
We’re also very proud of our team at the VA. The VA has addressed its capacity issues. It’s not seen cases among the veterans in its facilities increased so they’re deploying teams to focus on nursing homes. In Massachusetts, the VA personnel have disinfected two different nursing homes. In New Jersey, they’ve literally taken over two State nursing homes and deployed 90 doctors and nurses. And, in Florida we’re sending 16 teams to assist in nursing home operations.
<45:13>
As the President also mentioned, in addition to what I saw yesterday in Madison, Wisconsin, we continue to build our strategic national stockpile. It’s growing again with ventilators, nearly 11,000 in supply. 901 new ventilators will be added, transitioned, in the near term. Every American, I think, can be confident that should the need arise for your family member facing serious consequences from the coronavirus to need that equipment to help them breathe, that equipment will be there. As we said yesterday in Wisconsin, and you’ve said Mr. President, I think it should be a great source of comfort to every American that no American who has required a ventilator in the United States has been denied a ventilator. And that’s a testament to our healthcare workers. A testament to every American putting mitigation principles into practice. And it’s a testament of these great companies.
<46:15>
Speaking of great companies, American businesses are stepping up. It was on April 1st that I traveled to a Walmart distribution center and the President reached out to the president and CEO of Walmart to ask Walmart to get in the gowns business. And Mr. President, I’m glad to report to you that we heard today at the task force that Walmart is producing 8.4 million gowns, and they will be delivered into our commercial supply to healthcare facilities around the country by the end of June. They’re hardly alone. Honda is producing 500,000 face shields. New balance is making 100,000 masks a week.
<46:55>
In a very real sense, the American people have stepped up to make the sacrifices and endure the hardship that social distancing has required. But American businesses at every size and every means have come together to respond to the President’s call.
<47:12>
It really has been a whole-of-America approach. Our message from the President’s White House Coronavirus Task Force is to tell the American people it’s working, we’re getting there. We can see light at the end of the tunnel. We can see the data that we can reopen and put America back to work. But it’s going to take all of us continuing to make the sacrifices necessary, to practice those disciplines, to get us to a place where we can reopen safely and confidently. With that, Mr. President, I’ll call Dr.Fauci up for his reflections and then we’ll move on.
<01:06:39>
No, it’s just an enormously important question and we want to thank the American people who have been putting off visits to their grandmothers and grandfathers and moms and dads. It’s tough. I’m going to be in Indiana next week and I’m not going to go see my mom. She lives in her own home, but people get it that the risk of serious illness for a healthy American of the coronavirus is fairly low. You’ll either have flu like symptoms or no symptoms at all, but as we’ve said so many times at this podium and the American people get it, a healthy American could inadvertently convey the coronavirus to a senior with an underlying health condition, and have the kind of heartbreaking results that we’ve seen in nursing homes around the country. It’s the reason why from early on the president took decisive action to raise the infectious disease standards at every nursing home in America.
<01:07:43>
He deployed all 8,000 of our inspectors at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to dedicate all of their time to ensuring compliance with those new higher standards. We’ve spoken about nursing home issues with governors around the country and frankly there are governors around the country that have done remarkable work with nursing homes. You’ve mentioned governor Brian Kemp. He actually used the National Guard in Georgia. He deployed them to nursing homes to do cleaning and to disinfect areas of those nursing homes and it’s tremendous service. But to your point about testing, if you look carefully at the guidelines, Open Up America Again, you will see that in phase one, the level of testing that we contemplate is first that we want to be able to test anyone who has the symptoms that may be coronavirus and be able to test them quickly. Secondly, we want to do the contact tracing and Dr. Redfield and his team are deploying CDC teams in every state in America to be able to find out everyone that that person has been in contact with and test them.
<01:08:53>
But if you look right underneath that, what we’re directing states to do is be prepared to deploy testing resources first and foremost in nursing homes and longterm care facilities so that we can monitor any potential outbreak of the coronavirus among the most vulnerable population. And thanks to the leadership of our surgeon general, as the president announced today, we’re also going to be deploying testing resources to vulnerable communities, to underserved communities. The CDC released new preliminary data on the impact particularly on African American communities in this country, and it’s the reason why part of our phase one recommendation is that we deploy testing resources into those communities that are described by the doctors as socially vulnerable. And even as we speak, we’ll announce next week that we’re already in the process of deploying testing. And so, it’s a good opportunity to remind every American to be especially careful around our seniors, to heed the guidance about avoiding visitations, to protect the health of those who are most vulnerable. But the American people can be assured that from phase one forward all the way through phase three and reopening, we’re going to be helping to guide the states to focus on the most vulnerable, beginning with our seniors with serious underlying health conditions.
