<33:01>
Thank you, Mr. President. The white house coronavirus task force met today. It was reported to us that we’ve conducted and completed 3,324,000 tests and across the nation. More than 619,000 Americans have tested positive, but as you reflected yesterday when we welcomed coronavirus survivors here to the White House from across the country, some more than 45,000 Americans have fully recovered now. Sadly, we mourn than the loss of more than 27,000 of our countrymen. Our hearts are with their families and with the families of all of those that continue to struggle with the serious consequences of this illness. But as Dr. Birx just reflected, despite the heartbreaking losses, we’re getting there, America. Because of the efforts of people all across this country to put into practice the president’s coronavirus guidelines, because of their adherence to the direction of state and local authorities, as Dr. Birx just reflected, we see great signs of progress from the West Coast to the East Coast.
<34:17>
President Trump has directed our team to develop new guidelines that will be presented tomorrow to our nation’s governors and released to the American people thereafter. The American people will be encouraged to know that as we stand here today, 24% of the counties of this country have no reported coronavirus cases. In fact, half of the states in America have less than 2,500 cases per state. This is a great tribute to the efforts by the people of those communities, but as the president suggested, when we unveil the guidelines that the team has been working to present tomorrow to our nation’s governors, we’re going to reflect on the fact that, as the president said, there will be areas of the country that will require continued mitigation and strong efforts, and there will be other areas of the country that will be given guidance for greater flexibility. The president has so directed our team.
<35:24>
When we think of more than 619,000 Americans having tested positive, more than 45,000 having recovered, and we wanted to announce today that the FDA recently announced efforts to facilitate the development and access to convalescent plasma. Mr. President, you’ve spoken about this. People who have recovered from the coronavirus have antibodies in your bloodstream that can attack the virus. The Mayo Clinic today is working with the Red Cross to make sure the coronavirus patients have access to the convalescent plasma treatments, and over a thousand institutions across America have already joined this program. We want to urge every American who has recovered from the coronavirus for at least two and preferably four weeks to contact your local blood or plasma donation center and arrange to donate. It’s one more way that the American people can do their part and step forward, and thousands have already done so, and we know that tens of thousands will join them.
<36:28>
On the subject of supplies, Mr. President, I’ll be very brief, because you detailed a great amount. As the president mentioned, the Airbridge has completed the 44 flights. 56 more are scheduled, but on the subject of facial masks, which are so important for the protection of critical infrastructure, I’m pleased to report that the average daily delivery through the commercial network through our Airbridge is 22 million facial mask coming into the marketplace. The average inventory in the network over a seven-day period is 80 million masks, and FEMA is actually working as we speak to move facial mass to priority infrastructure. Food supply, first responders. There’ll be 6.5 million mass that go out before the end of this week, an additional 20 million before April the 20th, and then we’ll be adding 6.5 million each and every week at the president’s direction. We’re going to ensure that all of those that work in food supply, all of those first responders have access to masks, and we’re increasing those every day.
<37:35>
Finally, I know I speak for the president and when I say how proud we are of all of our healthcare workers across the country and how proud we are of the men and women in uniform, our medical professionals who have been deployed across the nation literally by the thousands. In fact, as we stand here today, 576 doctors, nurses and other military medical professionals have been deployed to 13 hospitals across the nation, 10 in New York and one in Connecticut, Texas and Louisiana each. As the president reflected a few days ago, because we did not have the happily did not have the demand on the Javits Center and on the Comfort in New York City, at the president’s direction, we have deployed doctors and nurses from those two facilities, two hospitals. In fact, the president and I were just speaking to Mayor de Blasio just before we came out, and he expressed his great admiration and appreciation for the relief that these medical military personnel have provided to incredibly dedicated people in our hospitals. 258 medical personnel just yesterday were deployed off the ship and out of the Javits Center into New York.
<38:47>
With that, Mr. President, I’ll step aside, but it’s remarkable to think of all that we’ve accomplished over the last month since you first issued the presidential guidelines for America. The truth is because of what the American people have done over the last 30 days, we are slowing the spread. We are ensuring that every American family have access to the healthcare that we want any member of our family to have with the greatest healthcare professionals in the world. We’re saving lives and we’re healing our land, so we want to thank the American people for all you have done. Tomorrow, we’ll be presenting a new guidance to the governors of this country about how we build on our progress and reopen America in a safe and responsible way. Thank you, Mr. President.
