<16:10>
Well, good afternoon everyone. As the President just said, we just completed the White House Coronavirus Task Force meeting in the situation room. And we continue to implement the President’s vision, not just for a whole of government response to the coronavirus, but a whole of America approach. The focus of our task force today and going forward is on implementing the President’s public and private partnership, on testing, focusing on ensuring that state and local authorities have the guidance and the support to ensure mitigation, particularly in areas where we’ve seen community spread. And we’re continuing to lean in at the President’s direction, on addressing capacity issues in our hospitals and with regard to equipment. Let me reiterate the President’s gratitude, not just for the team behind me and the team behind them, all of our federal agencies that are literally working every day to bring a whole of government approach to this but we also want to commend all of the governors across the country.
<17:24>
I’ll be speaking again to all the governors, all 50 States and the territories tomorrow. But as the President said yesterday in the Rose garden, we couldn’t be more grateful for all of the governors, particularly in areas where we’ve had community spread, for the seamless cooperation that’s taking place. And we commend local health authorities and all of those who are literally on the front lines. Also grateful all the businesses that you saw in high relief yesterday, businesses around the country in sports and entertainment, in retail that are making decisions based on CDC guidelines and good common sense to protect the American people. And lastly, as the President also said, we just want to thank the American people for listening to local authorities, listening to recommendations from the CDC. We’ll hear more about that in just a moment from Dr. Fauci and Dr. Burks.
<18:22>
But as we’re seeing, not surprisingly, as we’ve seen in the past, the American people are all responding to look after not only their own health, but their families and their communities. And one story after another is truly inspiring, to the President and to all of us. As you know, it’s been a brisk few days. The President declared a national emergency yesterday, freeing up a significant federal resources, for state and local authorities as well as our national response. The president announced that unprecedented public and private partnership on testing, and let me say that at 5:00 tomorrow we will be detailing the progress that our team is making. I can tell you they are literally working around the clock with private companies.
<19:11>
We are very pleased that Thermo Fisher was just approved last night by the FDA in record time, to also be providing what’s called a high throughput test, that will actually increase the capacity of this public and private partnership. But again, details on that in terms of when the local sites will be available at CVS and Walgreens and Walmart and other locations, what communities those will initially be available in, when the website will go online, as well as how this will continue to roll out, 5:00 PM tomorrow Eastern Standard Time, we’ll detail that. Last night the House of Representatives passed legislation which addressed the priorities that President Trump had laid out for the American people in the weeks before that. I want to join President Trump, in thanking a Speaker Pelosi, Leader McCarthy, the Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives, who as the President said earlier today, pulled together, pulled together to pass legislation that’s meeting this moment in the bipartisan health first spirit that the American people would expect.
<20:27>
The Secretary of the Treasury will detail the legislation, but to be clear, the deal that passed the house last night, will head to the Senate early next week, delivers on the President’s plan for strong health and economic support. Particularly focused on those most impacted, including hardworking blue collar Americans, who may not currently have paid family leave today. It provides free coronavirus testing for uninsured Americans and it builds on the decisions that President Trump made, expanding coverage for Medicare, Medicaid and also getting a commitment from private health insurance companies to join with us, to waive all copays on coronavirus testing. So now testing will be free for every American. Those who have insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, other programs and even the uninsured.
<21:24>
The legislation also establishes tax credits that the Secretary of the Treasury will describe, that’ll provide paid sick and family medical leave for coronavirus related employment interruptions. I expect Dr. Burks and Dr. Fauci will reiterate this, if you are sick, now you need not be concerned. If you’re an hourly wage earner in America, you need not be concerned about staying home. If you’re sick, stay home. You’re not going to miss a paycheck because of this legislation that’s moving through the Congress. We’ll make sure that your employer, including small businesses, have the ability to provide paid leave to you…
<22:03>
Businesses have the ability to provide paid leave to you. This also provides funding and flexibility to ensure that senior citizens, women, children and low income families have access to emergency nutritional assistance and it incentivizes states to ease access to employment benefits. Again, the President and I are profoundly grateful for the bipartisan spirit that drove this legislation and let me also say how grateful we are for the Secretary of the Treasury and the long hours that he put in negotiating this measure.
<22:33>
Let me say also last night at midnight the Department of Homeland Security implemented the President’s decision to suspend all travel from Europe passing through 13 airports, as Acting Secretary Wolf will detail the implementation of that. To be clear, countries where we have suspended travel under section 212F, Americans may still return to the United States. Legal residents may still return. They are being screened at some 13 airports as we speak.
<23:07>
If they are identified as being symptomatic for any illness, there is additional response on site, but those Americans are being encouraged to return home and self quarantine for 14 days. That started at midnight last night and Secretary will detail it. In a few moments I’ll ask Dr Fauci to update us on cases as well as current CDC guidance for all Americans.
<23:35>
And all of you are already aware that this week we issued specific guidance to about a half a dozen states where we’ve seen community spread. Dr Burts will touch briefly on the Public-Private Partnership Testing Plan and also speak about what the data is showing at this moment about the best guidance for every American.
<23:58>
Acting Secretary Wolf and I both want to join the President and commending the cruise line industry and they made a decision yesterday, 85% of all the domestic cruise lines announced that they would be suspending cruise line operations for a period of 30 days and Chad Wolf will explain to you the importance of that decision.
<24:23>
We want to commend the cruise line industry for working with us. And as we met last week on this day with cruise line industry executives, we’re going to be working very vigorously over the next 30 days to implement new policies that’ll ensure that when the cruise lines start back up, there’ll be safer and healthier places than ever before. But a great industry. American people love it and enjoy it and we’re going to make sure that it’s there for many, many years to come.
<24:50>
Also, as the President just foreshadowed in our task force meeting today, the President has made a decision to suspend all travel to the United Kingdom and Ireland effective midnight Monday night Eastern Standard Time. Chad Wolf will describe the details of that. But again, as the President just suggested, all of our health experts presented information. Dr Fauci will reflect on some of those numbers. Made a unanimous recommendation to the President that we suspend all travel from the UK and Ireland.
<25:22>
That will be effective midnight Monday night Eastern Standard Time. Again, Americans in the UK or Ireland can come home. Legal residents can come home, but as the Secretary will detail, they will be funneled through specific airports and process. We continue to emphasize that the risk of serious illness for the average American remains low, but the data shows that seniors with serious underlying health conditions are our most vulnerable population, the people most susceptible to serious medical outcomes.
<25:56>
Seema Verma, in a few moments, will talk about the President’s decision yesterday to restrict all visitors in all nursing homes around the country and other measures that we have taken. But it’s so important, so important for all of us, all of us who are blessed with having senior citizens in our family, like my 88 year old mom, let’s look after seniors with serious underlying health conditions and make sure that every American around them is practicing the best kind of hygiene, the best kind of measures to ensure that they’re not exposed. We’ll hear also from a Dr. Carson and the Surgeon General before we wrap up and take some questions. With that, let me recognize Dr. Tony Fauci for an update on where we stand and recommendations and guidance.
<30:12>
Thank you, Dr. Fauci.
<34:00>
Thank you. Great comments. Mr. Secretary, on the legislation that passed the house.
<38:29>
Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I know the President would want me to say again how grateful we are for all of your efforts on behalf of the American people. Acting Secretary Chad Wolf is going to speak about cruise lines, the current suspension of travel in the expansion to UK and Ireland, Mr. Secretary.
<41:24>
Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I know the President would want me to reiterate your thanks and commendation to the dedicated men and women of DHS that are on the front lines of implementing these travel policies and doing an outstanding job. With that, I’m going to recognize Seema Verma, the Head of CMS to talk about our continued emphasis on seniors, in particularly the risk to seniors with serious underlying health conditions and the steps that we’re taking relative to nursing homes and inspections and guidance to protect those most vulnerable.
<43:25>
Thank you, Seema. And I’m mindful of the fact that there are likely many seniors in nursing homes around America that could be watching us at this hour. And let me just assure you that we’re going to continue to take steps to ensure that all the guidance from CMS, all the guidance from CDC about preventing the spread of infectious disease remains low. But, and the threat here, I want to be clear, as Dr. Fauci has said, I might just ask him to emphasize again, the threat here is not to seniors particularly or to seniors that may be on certain medications, but for seniors with-
<44:03>
Maybe on certain medications, but for seniors with serious underlying health conditions, we’re taking the steps of suspending visitors for the purpose of protecting the most vulnerable, but to all of those other seniors that are watching from nursing homes or maybe watching from home or otherwise healthy. Dr Fouche, maybe you’d give them a word.
<44:37>
Thank you Doctor. Thank you. Couple more updates for you. I want to hear from the Surgeon General and Dr. Carson and then we’ll go to as many questions as you have. Okay. Mr. Surgeon General.
<47:23>
Well done. Thank you. And Secretary and Dr. Ben Carson.
<50:30>
Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Okay, questions.
<51:05>
Secretary Azar was at the Coronavirus task force meeting this morning. He’s back to work and we’ll have a changing roundup for these presentations so we can get quickly to your questions. But Secretary Azar is doing a remarkable job, working seven days a week for the American people and making a difference. With regard to Google and other private partners, I know Google issued a statement that they are planning to launch a website. I think they gave a date of Monday, March 16th. We’re working literally around the clock and I know that our whole team working on this public and private partnership, couldn’t be more grateful to all of the hardworking people at Google that are helping to put this website together.
<52:00>
But tomorrow, five o’clock we’ll have very specific description tomorrow about when the website will be available, when the parking lot sites will be available for people to be tested. And we’re working right now with state and local communities to determine where it’s best to roll those out as a number of communities are already doing a great job meeting their needs. So we’re trying to flow the resources, but five o’clock tomorrow night we’ll have details.
<52:54>
Well I know the President announced that he has been tested and I’m going to speak immediately after this press conference with the White House Physician’s Office. At this point, as of last night, the White House Physician’s Office had said that neither I nor Mrs. Pence either had the symptoms or the contacts that would necessitate testing. And maybe I might ask Dr. Berks to step up. As we expand testing across the country, we want people to be able to go to a website, they’ll be a questionnaire there to determine whether or not a test is in order. Because we want to make sure that people are being tested that have the symptoms, but I’m going to speak to the White House Physician right after this press briefing and Mrs. Pence and I’d be more than happy to be tested. Dr. Berks you want to speak to.
<55:17>
Well, what Google said was that they’re planning to launch a website this coming Monday, March 16th that will enable individuals to do a risk assessment and be scheduled for testing at pilot testing sites in the Bay area with the goal of expanding to other locations and we’re very grateful for that. The objective here is to have a website up very quickly that that first people in the areas that have been deeply impacted. Washington state, California, New York. Now we’ve seen community spread in Massachusetts and also Florida and so we want to make sure that we’re flowing those resources as well as those remote testing sites in that area. But that’s a statement I was handed this morning from them and again, I want to tell you folks, we’re working 24 seven on this. We’re going to have very specific details on the rollout of this new public private partnership and testing at five o’clock tomorrow.
<56:50>
I’d refer those questions to the White House Physician’s Office. I have been informed that they’re establishing new protocols for temperature checks and I had my temperature checked too. Let me ask the Secretary of the Treasury to address what may be the next few innings. I thought Secretary Mnuchin put it very well, we got the initial support, $8.3 billion from the Congress. The house passed legislation to act on the President’s priorities. But we understand, the President’s made it very, very clear. Whether it’s our airline industry, our cruise industry, that we expect to be coming back to Congress to make sure that our, as we put the health of America first, as businesses make those hard choices to make a priority of the health of their employees or of those that they serve or their customers, that we’re going to make sure that they can come all the way back. Mr. Secretary.
<01:00:15>
Right.
<01:00:31>
Well, I’m going to let Dr. Berks address that because the reason we’re…
<01:00:38>
Everything that we are communicating to the public is based on what is the unanimous opinion of our health experts based upon the information that we have at the time. It’s now a little more than a few weeks since we had our first instance of community spread in the United States and letting the American people know that the President took every step to prevent the Coronavirus from coming into our country. I think you can’t overstate how unprecedented and extraordinary the suspension of all travel from China was when the President made that decision before the end of January. And the travel advisories with portions of Italy, South Korea, the screening of personnel coming into our country. But allow me to let Dr. Berks address that because what we’re going to continue to do is tell the American people straight from the health experts the best information that we have to see to their own health, the health of their family and their community. Dr. Berks.
<01:03:38>
Monday.
<01:03:39>
Yeah.
<01:03:57>
Well, the President expressed strong support for the legislation. It received a very large bipartisan vote in the house, but we respect the process. I’m grateful for the support that Leader McConnell has expressed for the process and the priorities that the President has outlined. We’ll be working with members of the Senate to unpack the bill for them and why President Trump endorsed it yesterday and we believe that they should move it expeditiously to passage. With regard to additional travel restrictions…
<01:04:35>
But let me just say, as the President said, we’re considering a broad range of measures but no decisions have been made yet. But I just want to assure the American people of two things. We’re going to continue to follow the facts. We’re going to continue to listen to the experts about recommendations. We’ll bring as we did this week when the President made the decision to suspend all travel from Europe. We’ll bring the best recommendations of our healthcare experts to the President. And I promise you, and I promise the American people, this President is going to continue to take every step necessary to protect the American people and put the health of the American people first and together we’ll get through this. Thank you.
