<01:14:49>
Well, thank you, Mr. President. And what I can tell you is that the President has made a priority from the outset of our task force work, make sure every American knows that they can have a coronavirus, and they don’t have to worry about the cost. We were very inspired as well. Because of the President’s engagement with the leading health insurance companies in the country that now, so far, two of the top health insurance companies in America have announced that they’re not only willing to waive copays on testing, now testing is fully covered because of the bill the President signed for every American. But also that these two insurance companies have waived copays on all coronavirus treatment.
<01:15:35>
And I can assure you that as Congress and the President and the Administration begin to discuss the next piece of legislation, we’re going to make sure that Americans have those costs compensated and covered. Our priority right now is ensuring that every American takes the 30 days to slow the spread to heart. The best thing we can do for one another, for our family’s health, for the most vulnerable among us, is practice those mitigation strategies that the President outline yesterday for the next 30 days.
<01:16:14>
We’re dealing with testing to make sure that every American can have a test that needs one. We’re dealing with supplies, and we’re making great progress in building personal protective equipment and ensuring that ventilators are available, particularly for the communities most impacted. But the American people can be confident that, as we move into this, we’re going to make sure that our health care workers are properly compensated for their extraordinary and courageous work. And we’ll make sure that the financial burden on those who end up contracting the coronavirus and dealing with its most serious symptoms also can deal with those issues and deal with those cost.
<01:17:20>
Well, all across America we have Medicaid for underprivileged Americans, and at the President’s direction, the Center for Medicaid and Medicare services has given unprecedented waivers for states to expand coverage for coronavirus testing and treatment. We’ve also extended waivers for Medicare administration to make sure that people have access to that coverage. But we’re going to continue bring opportunities to the traditional systems of Medicaid in particular for the uninsured in America.
<01:17:57>
I think what we’re seeing health insurance companies do today, John, is really inspiring. I mean, one of the things <crosstalk 00:24:02> that has characterized the President’s approach here-
<01:18:09>
Well, one of the things that has animated and characterize the President’s approach is the way he’s engaged American businesses to step up and do their part. And as the President said many times we’re inspired by the spirit of American businesses. I was at a distribution center for Walmart today in Southern Virginia, and I saw the way this company that, literally, has already hired thousands of people… These workers are coming to work. The truck drivers are coming to work, farmers are working in the field. Grocery stores made a commitment to the President a month ago that no grocery store in America would close down. The food supply is strong. We’re getting food on the table of every American, but it’s because the President went to these leaders and said, “We need you to step up and do your part.”
<01:18:58>
We engaged health insurance executives early on in this process to waive copays on Coronavirus testing, and because of the engagement, and, frankly, because of that patriotic and compassionate spirit that’s being reflected, we’ve already seen two of the largest insurance companies in the country announced that they’re providing full coverage, free of charge for coronavirus treatment.
<01:19:23>
I fully expect, I think as the President does too, that we’ll see more of that for people that have insurance. We’ll continue to provide flexibility for Medicaid, for people that don’t have insurance. And we’ll make sure that Medicare has a flexibility to meet this moment. For seniors, when we remember that seniors with underlying health conditions are the most vulnerable to serious outcomes from the coronavirus, but we’ll get through this using the full weight of the federal government and the full strength of the American economy.
<01:23:24>
Well, I think the test kits were delivered according to HHS. But the difference is between receiving a test and the ability to rapidly produce a result of that test. Frankly because of the public private partnership that the president initiated now more than a month ago with our massive commercial laboratories across the country, our team was reported today that we’re now doing more than a hundred thousand tests a day. More than 1.2 million tests have been performed. States have established drive through sites all across the country. In fact, States have been so successful at the community based and drive through testing, that we’re working to transition over completely all of the federal work on drive through testing and have the States completely manage that process.
<01:24:19>
HHS was very busy from early in the year delivering test kits around the country. But the difference was, as the president said many times, we had an antiquated system where a state laboratory or CDC only had the capacity to process 40 to 60 tests a day. Now with the commercial labs, literally those labs are processing tens of thousands of tests every day. So while we’re continuing to distribute test kits around the country, now because of the partnership with companies like Roche, and Quest and Lab Corp, the American people are seeing the results of those tests more rapidly than at any point in the past. We expect that we’ll continue to expand. But the exciting news this weekend about Abbott Laboratories having a 15 minute test approved is going to put us in a position we believe down the road to get to where Dr <Fowchee 01:25:20> And Dr. <Burks 01:25:21> want us to be for many of the States that don’t yet have significant outbreak. There’s some 19 States where we don’t have significant outbreak, but we want to be doing the kind of surveillance testing in those States that will allow us to early on to identify people with the Coronavirus. Do what the experts call, contact tracing, and ensure that in that state we don’t have an outbreak of the Coronavirus.
<01:41:57>
<inaudible 00:20:57>.
