<01:21:13>
<inaudible 01:21:13> Well, as I said, more and more tests are being performed every day and as we learn about the results that are being reported around the country of Coronavirus tests, our experts continue to look at the numbers and see that some 90% of Americans that are tested do not test positive for the Coronavirus. And so it can give you a sense of the magnitude of testing that’s going on. We have the number of cases that we’ve reported today, but it’s in some cases near to 10 times that that had been tested. But let me also emphasize how important it was in answering these questions for governors and local officials that the president stood up FEMA and the national response center where we briefed governors yesterday.
<01:22:03>
Now every governor and their state department, state health departments have the ability to reach out to our regional FEMA administrators and that’s how, as the president said, we’re sorting out those potential conflicts between very significant federal purchases and procurements and as hospitals and state governments are purchasing as well. I think the new streamlined system operating now in all 50 States in our territories of governors and States going through their regional administrator for FEMA is going to make it more possible for us to ensure that our hospitals or healthcare providers have access to what’s available on the open market and elsewhere.
<01:22:57>
I would say, do not be afraid to be vigilant. All the experts tell us that the risk of serious illness to the average American for the Coronavirus is low, but we need every American to put into practice the president’s Coronavirus guidelines, 15 days to slow the spread, because the Coronavirus is about three times more contagious than the flu according to our best estimate and you can contract the Coronavirus, have very mild symptoms, if any, not even be aware that you have it, and expose someone who is vulnerable to a very serious health outcome.
<01:23:39>
That’s the reason why we’re encouraging people to avoid groups of more than 10, to not eat in restaurants but to use drive throughs, to wash their hands on a regular basis, and particularly we’re going to continue as the president has directed us to on the most vulnerable population, which are seniors with serious underlying health conditions or anyone with an underlining immunodeficiency. It’s those people we need to care for, but it’s going to take all of us working together to make sure they’re safe. <crosstalk 01:24:14>
