<26:50>
Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening. What I want to talk briefly about is the Defense Production Act and to give you the overview here. Using the full power of private enterprise and new full force in the federal government, my job at the White House is to make sure, tactically working with FEMA and HHS, is the American people, particularly our healthcare professionals, get the gloves, the masks, and all of the personal protective equipment they need.
<27:20>
I can tell you, sir, that since you signed Defense Production Act, my job’s gotten easier and let me explain why. The Defense Production Act in this context has two primary functions. One is mobilization of the industrial base, in this case the public health industrial base. And the other is allocation of resources both from the supply chain to the manufacturers and from the manufacturers to the end users, such as the healthcare professionals.
<27:54>
Now, what we’re seeing on a purely voluntary basis, based on the leadership of this administration, we’re seeing the greatest mobilization in the industrial base since World War II. Every day I’m working with organizations and companies, National Association of Manufacturing, the National Council of Textile Organizations and so on, in terms of building up rapidly our capabilities to get what you need.
<28:21>
Now, let’s think about what mobilization means. It can mean, for example, re-purposing a factory. So Pernod Ricard called us last week and they had three hurdles they had to deal with. They called my office, had to make a call to Treasury, FDA and HHS to clear the path. We got that done that day.
<28:44>
They started their production that day, moving from alcoholic beverages to hand sanitizers. And as we speak, a truck is moving towards New York and will arrive there Tuesday to share with the hospitals over a thousand gallons of sanitizer. So that would be a re-purpose.
<29:03>
A second example would be one that the president offered with Honeywell. Again, Honeywell called the White House asking for help from the president. What they said is, “Look, we want to do this new factory in Smithfield, Rhode Island.” They called me on a Friday morning, and by that night we had a contract in to HHS.
<29:24>
HHS flipped that immediately and I had Honeywell moving people and equipment from Massachusetts to that facility in Smithfield, Rhode Island. And we’re going to have those masks produced within 30 days, moving on the assembly chain.
<29:40>
So my point is mobilization is re-purposing, building up capabilities. And the other portion is, of course, the allocation of resources. Now, what I can tell you so far is that the Defense Production Act, sir, has given me quite a leverage.
<29:57>
When you have a strong leader, you can take a light hand initially. So what we’ve seen with this outpouring of volunteers from private enterprise, we’re getting what we need without putting the heavy hand of government down.
<30:13>
There will be, possibly, cases down the road, and the manufacturers have actually asked me and alerted me to this, where some places in the supply chain, they may have problems that the White House will have to break through using the Defense Production Act. We won’t hesitate to do that. The last thing I’ll tell you is that I also get a lot of calls that are very disquieting. Brokers are offering millions of items, whether they’re goggles, masks or whatever. And you go through three different brokers, tracing to a warehouse in LA that’s allegedly got 10 million masks and they want to charge you seven times what they cost. That’s price gouging.
<30:54>
<31:12>
So I salute you, sir. You’ve made my job easier and I appreciate that.
