<32:21>
Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. FEMA is now leading the federal operation or the federal response for all operations on behalf of The White House Coronavirus Task Force who oversees this whole of nation response. HHS will continue to provide their experts matter expertise on health and pursuant to the Nationwide Emergency Declaration, FEMA, in coordination with HHS is assisting state local tribal territorial governments and their other eligible entities with health and safety emergency protective measures on behalf of the American public. As of yesterday, 50 states, the District of Columbia, five territories and one tribe are working directly with FEMA under the Nationwide Emergency Declaration for COVID-19.
<33:06>
In just 24 hours, we’ve obligated $100 million to states, territories and tribes. A little bit about supplies. It is of the utmost importance that requests for assistance, especially for critical supplies get routed through proper channels as soon as possible. And we ask everyone to follow the normal procedures, the normal procedures FEMA uses in a natural disaster. There’s no different procedure for the COVID-19 pandemic, but remember you can still order supplies from your regular vendors and buy it on the open market, buy it where you can find it. We will reimburse you. If you buy medical supplies from foreign sources, it is reimbursable by America, it does not apply to The Stafford Act except for Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. If you can’t buy it on the open market, make a request through the FEMA system. Request for assistance at the local and county level should first go to states, from states to the regional FEMA offices and then from those offices right here in D.C. where the National Response Coordination Center is open and running.
<34:11>
We are getting requests for mass PPE, swab sets, test site supports, ventilators, hospital capacity assessments and many more. We are in lockstep with HHS to answer these requests, but we will do whatever is necessary to get states, tribes, territories and others they what they need. And then finally, what we are doing here in Washington D.C., again, this is a whole of government response, like all emergency response is most successful when it is locally executed, state managed and federally support. We can’t say that enough. On Thursday our federal partners fully integrated with our National Response Coordination Center and additionally all 10 FEMA regions across the country have been activated. The FEMA regional administrators will continue to coordinate closely with governors, state emergency managers, state public health officials to determine the type and level of support needed to respond to this dynamic threat. Thank you, sir.
<47:35>
Yes sir. So within the National Coordination Center, we have a supply chain task force. And in a basic sense we’re trying to identify the universe of what’s out there. So whether we hold it at the federal level, we hold it in the private sector and then match that up with demand and asking people to be creative. We’re asking, again, this is a shared responsibility. We’re asking locals and states to do your share locally, try to take a little bit of burden off of us and then we’ll prioritize those scarce resources because every single governor across the country is looking for the exact same thing.
<48:08>
So there’s a balance, but we’re examining the entire supply chain to make sure that we make …
<48:16>
They’re out there now. So again, we want to match, we want to get out of the middle I think.
<48:23>
So we’re trying to match suppliers with demand. So that’s what we’re doing right now. It’s happening today.
<48:32>
There’s a range of requests across the country and we’re trying to match those again, supply and demand every day.
