<01:51>
Okay. Well first of all, thank you Mr. President for having us again here today in the run up to St. Patrick’s Day. Just another opportunity I think to show how close Ireland and America are, how good our relationship is politically and economically and everything else. St. Patrick’s Day has become, I think, a symbol of how close Ireland and America are and how we’re going to continue to stay close into the future. The big concern in Ireland in Europe at the moment as you know, is COVID-19, and we’ve acted just as you’ve acted decisively in the last couple of days. We have restrictions on travel for example, at Italy for a few days already, but as of tomorrow, our schools will close, our creches will close. We’re banning all indoor gatherings of more than 100 people, and outdoor gatherings of more than 500. This is all based on the public health advice from our CDC that we need to do this for a couple of weeks to make sure the virus doesn’t spread.
<02:44>
We’re particularly trying to protect older people and people with chronic diseases. We’ve got about 30 or 40 cases so far, with that we are real concerned that that could rise. That’s why we’re taking the action that we’re taking. But as you know, it’s a virus that’s gone pandemic. It’s all over the world, knows no borders, knows no nationalities, and I think we all need to work together in the world on this. America in particular, you’re the richest country in the world, you’ve got great scientists, great companies, great universities, and we need them working on treatments, working on tests, and working on a vaccine. Beause that’s what will get us on top of this.
<03:23>
I was with the Vice President this morning, who I know is heading up the task force for you, and he gave me a lot of confidence that you’re getting on top of this and you’re investing in this.
<04:07>
Just saying that the president has excluded Ireland from the travel ban. One of the things we have in Ireland is CBP, American border security in Ireland. Went through it myself yesterday and they were asking the right questions whether people had been to China, things like that. That puts us in a slightly different position.
<10:45>
Yeah, about 35 million are Irish.
<10:49>
Irish blood.
<13:48>
We’d like to see you back in Ireland again for a longer visit I hope next time.
<13:56>
That’s of course a matter for the American people, but President Trump and any American presence is always welcome in Ireland.
<21:31>
I think we went for this, did we?
<22:16>
It almost feels impersonal or feels like you’re being rude, but we just can’t afford to think like that for the next few weeks.
