<19:54>
Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. This is an important meeting for us at VA, but it comes on the heels of…
<20:03>
I think for us at VA, but it comes on the heels of almost two years of constant reform that we’ve had at the department. We serve a unique population that has performed unique services to America. And I’m happy to report to the President that our approval ratings at VA are almost 40 points higher than they were in 2014 and 2016. As a result of that-
<20:31>
90.1%. We have seen millions of Americans flock to VA. Last year, we set a record for the number of internal appointments at VA, 59.9 million. That is an all time high. The reason that is important is that so many veterans have been trusted us with their lives, and also with the wellbeing of their families. We have 134 nursing homes in the Department of Veterans Affairs, 7,500 patients, over half of those come from World War II in Korea. We have, as we speak, only four of those 7,500 who have tested positive for the COVID virus.
<21:15>
One of the reasons those numbers are so low is that the decision that the President made when we discussed what to do that first week of March, we had to make a drastic decision to cut off these deserving veterans, primarily from Korea in World War II, and the sustenance of their families in order to protect them. We tested them, we tested our employees, and we were able to cut them off from the most baleful effects of this virus. But in addition to those preventive measures, we were able to produce for the entire country, on March, 17th, guidance on how to protect America’s most vulnerable citizens, but that’s only part of what the President has entrusted us with doing.
<22:03>
I am the son of a grievously wounded combat soldier from Vietnam. The President gave me instructions to make sure that the last of the circles left over from that conflict are closed, and this fall, we will finally start providing sustenance, financial and material, to the families of those veterans from Vietnam, who care for those veterans. So all of the mistakes made 50, 40 years ago, we will finally rectify.
<22:34>
The last thing I will say is that VA has reached a milestone, not only in terms of trust, but also in providing the country with assistance in terms of helping our most vulnerable citizens. As we speak, we are in 48 States right now, in hundreds of nursing homes, providing nurses, gerontologists. We’ve taken over the management of several State veterans homes in order to protect our most vulnerable veterans. And we’ve done it with our employees who have gone in harm’s way without any question, when it comes to their own safety, helping the most deserving of Americans.
<23:18>
And to finally say our numbers, we serve nine and a half million veterans in VA. We have 14,000 veterans who have come down with the virus, but of those 14, 000, 12,000, almost 12,000, are fully recovered. And then our nursing homes, again, of the 7,500, only four tested positive for the virus. I cannot thank the President for his support. I cannot thank our employees at VA for their heroic action. We are on the front lines when it comes to bolstering the lives of the most deserving Americans, those who have carried our freedom on their shoulders. So mr. President, I thank you for everything you’ve done for America’s <inaudible 00:24:01>.
