<20:29>
Mr. President, thank you. And thank you for everything you have done to transform the Department of Veterans Affairs on behalf of the Nation’s, nine and a half million veterans. 75 years ago, the men of the 28th Marine Regiment raised the American flag on Mount Suribachi. No event better evoked the sacrifices and the trials of the 15 million Americans who put on the uniform during World War II. A few years after Iwo Jima, the soldiers of the United States Eighth Army defended the Pusan Perimeter, and Marines fought through and out of the chosen reservoir.
<21:13>
Veterans of those terrible times are still with us today. Early on in this crisis, President Trump gave me very explicit orders to do everything possible to protect the lives of those precious Americans. The Department of Veterans Affairs has 134 nursing homes. But more than half of the residents in those nursing homes fought in wars with battles with names like Guadalcanal, and The Bulge, and In’chon.
<21:45>
Of the 78,000 residents in our nursing homes, we have tested all of them for the Coronavirus. We have tested all of our staff in those nursing homes. Our infection rate is low. Many of our homes have few, if any, positive cases. But still, as the President noted, we had to make a very tough decision early on. After all of these veterans had gone through so much on the battlefield, we had to tell them at this stage in their lives that we were depriving them of the sustenance of their families and friends because we had to protect their lives.
<22:28>
Because of the President’s directions to me, we have been able to contain the virus in our nursing homes. And now, we are taking those lessons that we’ve learned from VA across the country to protect patients across America. We are the federal experts in gerontology. We are helping 38 States and territories handle the surge of patients dealing with this virus, with our partners, our great partners at FEMA, and even by direct action through the governors.
<23:02>
Aiding America’s elderly is central to all of our efforts. We deployed VA staff, as the President noted, to veterans nursing homes owned and operated by the individual States. Early on Governors Charlie Baker and Phil Murphy moved to protect their veterans and they asked us for help. In addition to Massachusetts and New Jersey, we were helping in Alabama, Florida, and Tennessee.
<23:29>
In California, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, and Texas we have taken in non-veteran nursing home patients and state veterans nursing home patients into our VA facilities. We are helping elderly Americans wherever we find them.
<23:49>
Mr. President, you should be very proud of this VA that you have helped build. Thousands of VA employees have lept into harm’s way. VA leaders like Joan McInerney and Martina Parauda, in your hometown. Ryan Little in Boston, Rima Nelson in Detroit, Vicky Braun in Illinois and Wisconsin. Fernando Rivera and Skye McDougall in New Orleans, and Miguel Lapuz in Florida. All of them have put service before self to protect the most vulnerable and deserving. These are the folks who made America strong and free. Thank you, very much. Thanks.
