<39:51>
Thank you, Mr. President. My instructions from the president were very clear. I was to do everything imaginable as aggressively as possible to protect the nine and a half million veterans who are part of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
<40:06>
Last month, we established 19 emergency operations centers across the country and we began to limit the number of visitors who entered our facilities. We were the first system to begin triaging across the country in our 170 hospitals, the entrance of anyone into our facility without being questioned or tested. We expanded those restrictions to those in our 135 community living centers, which have about 7,800 veterans who are in acute, in acute conditions to make sure that they were protected.
<40:45>
We also took the next step and made sure that we limited the dental surgeries that we provided. We’ve cut back by one third the number of routine appointments we have had and we have canceled elective surgeries. These were all part of the president’s directive to be as aggressive in a public health sense as we could be and I think we have set the pace for the entire country.
<41:13>
I will say, we’ve often said that we work the most noble mission in the federal government. Our veterans have been in the toughest spots in the world. They have been put in conditions that are unimaginable to most Americans and they have responded. They have responded clearly. They have responded with passion and also, the 400,000 members of our department who are out there on the front lines.
<41:40>
The last thing I will say is that, you have heard a lot about the fourth mission that VA has. Our first three missions are healthcare, benefits and memorial affairs. Our fourth mission is to support the federal government in times of natural disasters and pandemics. We are the buttress force in case that FEMA or HHS calls upon us to deploy medical professionals across the country to meet crises. We plan for that every day. We are gaming out emergency preparedness scenarios and we stand ready when the president needs us to expand our mission. Thank you.
<01:11:27>
Those that have needed to be tested, we believe we’ve caught most of them. Right now, we have 44 veterans who have tested positive. Sadly, one has passed in Portland. We are working with state labs and private companies to make sure that testing is available. Because the president had us out aggressively early, we have been in a better place than most healthcare systems in the country. I cannot predict this. Dr. Birx said when the next surge will be, if it will be, but one of the things that we do at VA is that we prepare for national emergencies, be the national disasters or epidemics. We started preparing for this. We started stockpiling equipment. Our equipment is stable, and I think that’s in large part because of the instructions the president gave me.
<01:12:27>
We tested several hundred. I can’t give you the direct-
<01:12:30>
We’ve tested several hundred. Yes. We’ve tested several hundred. I don’t know exactly. I do know that 44 veterans have the virus. Most of those are quarantined at home.
