<30:45>
Thank you, President Trump, and really appreciate the invitation to talk about reopening businesses in America. My name is Rodney McMullen. I’m the chairman and CEO of Kroger. I represent over 500,000 associates. We’ve hired over a 100,000 people over the last two months. And our job is to keep our supply chain operating fresh, affordable food and essentials, and we operate 2800 stores, 35 manufacturing plants, 44 distributions facilities. If you look at our associates, we’ve invested over $800 million in safety procedures and rewards for our associates over the last eight, nine weeks. Obviously, we all do everything we can to make sure we keep our employees safe, and on a daily basis. If you look at our customers, we have 11 million people a day that come into our stores.
<31:44>
So, the things that we’re doing to protect our employees, we’re also doing the same thing to protect our customers. We use every available way of trying to remind customers on social distancing, limiting the number of people in the stores. We have an in-store radio network that every 15 minutes we remind people of social distancing, but everything that we can do, we’re trying to remind people to stay safe and do things. We also are supporting our business in continuing to make sure that we have a viable, strong business over time in supporting the communities that we operate in. Over the last year, working with local food banks, we’ve been able to provide, over the last three years, over a billion meals with local food banks, and it’s something that in the United States, no one should have to go to bed tonight hungry. We have so many resources as a country and together we can eliminate food waste, and when we eliminate food waste, we can make sure no one goes to bed hungry.
<32:50>
Obviously, it’s one of the things that we thought it would be helpful to pay forward. As a company that’s operated throughout the pandemic, we’ve learned a lot, and one of the things you’ll learn is be agile and move quickly, and if you think you should do something, you probably should do it. With that, we developed a 59 page blueprint that we made public and we’ve shared it. And I know the other day I was on the Today Show and they asked me like four times, why would you do that? And one of the things that was incredibly helpful for us is, other retailers across the world that were in front of us from the pandemic standpoint, was nice enough to share their learnings with us, and we thought it was only fair and inappropriate for us to share our learnings with others.
<33:40>
We’ve had over 100,000 site visits on that. We’ve had over 26,000 individuals and companies download that. We get a ton of notes from small companies in terms of their appreciation. If you look at all the companies in this room, we have a lot of resources, but if you think about somebody with 50 employees or a hundred employees or 200 employees, the resources they have is just not the same as us. And so, sharing that across, has been something that’s been important and it’s a real pleasure to represent all the Kroger associates in being able to help America get started again. So, thank you, Mr. President.
<34:24>
Yep, happy to. Thank you.
