<52:26>
Good afternoon, Mr. President. Scott Perry from Pennsylvania. I want to first thank you for acknowledging those NCAA championship wrestlers from Penn State. Jim Jordan of course as you know, is a big fan of those Penn State wrestlers. Mr. President, thank you so much for your bold, visionary, decisive leadership. It has made a huge difference in Pennsylvania. In the district I represented and across the Keystone state. The PPP in particular save countless, countless jobs. It has been a lifeline for the small businesses across our state. And of course running it through the local banks, getting government out of it, letting the banks, our local community banks handle that, has been just… Because, that’s who people know. And have a relationship, and the bankers of course know them. That’s worked really well. But I will tell you in the transition to greatness, what I don’t think we did envision is the same bold vision and leadership that you’ve had and some of our state governors.
<53:25>
And right now, just last night, our governor announced that we in Pennsylvania, are going to stay locked down until June 4th. Mr. President, our businesses are dying. We shouldn’t have to make this choice. We’re Americans, and we can do two things at one time. You have proven you can do many things at one time, and be effective. We have about 65% of our deaths in Pennsylvania happening at elder care facilities, at assisted living facilities, not in hospitals. But at these elder care facilities. The PPE is going to the hospitals, the money, a lot’s going to hospitals because we shut them down. The governor’s made the choice. Instead of helping some of these elder care facilities, we have a website where people can snitch on their neighbor who’s going to work, or who is opening their business in contradiction to the order. That’s not bringing anybody together.
<54:16>
So a couple of things. Extending the PPP, the eight weeks, until after the governor opens the state because employers now don’t want to have to pay for employees who are not going to be able to come back to work. Right? Because the state has shut down. You didn’t do that. The governor has done that. Right?
<54:34>
So to transition to greatness, I think might include something like that. Right now we have counties that want to open up. The governor said, “No.” Counties want to open up. They’re not sure. They’re scared that if they open up, and again, violating so to speak, the governor’s order, that that will stop the flow of federal dollars for the programs that you already have. And so some assurance that they can do the right thing and get their people back to work as Americans would be very, very helpful.
<55:03>
I would say this as well, Mr. President, the unemployment benefits in the real world, we tried to do the right thing. You tried to do the right thing. Employers are thankful for the fact that they won’t be held accountable if their employee doesn’t come back to work. But when you have a governor that doesn’t want to enforce the policy, it’s not really helpful. Because the employer needs the employee to come back. They need them to come back. And so maybe take a look at that.
<55:28>
And finally in this transition to greatness, Mr. President, China, once we get through this, there must be an accountability. There must be an accountability. And we all want to get back. We’re here, we’re ready to be at work. Speaker Pelosi apparently is not, but if she is going to do phase four where she’s working on her own. She doesn’t involve our leadership, she doesn’t involve Kevin. She doesn’t involve anybody here. Mr president, the prescription to get us back to work and healthy as an economy, quite honestly is simple. And you already know it. You’ve already talked about it a million times. Let’s just get back to work. Let’s just get back to work. Thank you Mr. President.
