<26:05>
Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your continued leadership as we battle the coronavirus. First, I want to thank all of the members of the HHS team and the frontline healthcare workers across America, including those service workers who serve in our hospitals and our health care facilities. Those who clean, those who deliver, those who stock the shelves, all those who are going into battle every day against the virus. Your country’s asked you to serve as never before and you have responded heroically. I’m going to provide a brief update on the administration’s plans to cover the testing and treatment for the uninsured. Getting the uninsured access to the care they need is a top priority for President Trump. We are already rolling out the $1 billion in funding from the Families first Coronavirus Response Act to cover provider’s expenses for testing and diagnosing the uninsured. The CARES Act signed by the president includes another $100 billion for healthcare providers.
<27:08>
Under the president’s direction, we will use a portion of that funding to cover provider’s costs of delivering COVID-19 care for the uninsured, sending the money to providers through the same mechanism used for testing. As a condition of receiving funds under this program, providers will be forbidden from balance billing the uninsured for the cost of their care. Providers will be reimbursed at Medicare rates. We will soon have more specifics on how the rest of the $100 billion will go to providers. We’re working to ensure that this funding is distributed in a way that is fast, fair, simple and transparent. I’d also like to remind people that if you’ve lost employer insurance coverage, you have insurance options that you should look into. You’d be eligible for a special enrollment period on the healthcare exchanges, and depending on your state, you may be eligible for Medicaid.
<28:10>
Just as President Trump is working to ensure that COVID-19 treatment is paid for, he’s working to support new treatment options for patients. Thanks to the president’s leadership, many providers are trying different experimental therapies and we need as much data as we can collect as quickly as possible on how these treatments are working. Today, Oracle has developed and is donating to the government and the American people a web portal and platform to gather crowdsourced realtime information from providers about how patients respond to potential therapeutics. While this doesn’t replace the important work of clinical trials, it gives us data rapidly. If you are a doctor or a healthcare provider and you would like to help us, you can sign up today to begin reporting on your work. There’s a special registration page for providers@covid19.oracle.com. Thank you very much.
<39:24>
Thank you, Mr. President. Absolutely. For 15 years now, this country is at a massive effort at the federal, state and local level of preparedness for a pandemic. Now, that largely has been, as I said in those remarks, about pandemic flu preparedness. We knew about SARS, we knew about MERS, which were earlier modifications or variants of the coronavirus. None of those achieved anything like what we’re seeing today, but that’s why four successive presidencies, including the leadership of President Trump, there has been a great focus on pandemic preparedness. In fact, it was just in November, I believe, that the president signed the Pandemic Flu Preparedness Executive.
<40:03>
… November, I believe, that the president signed the pandemic flu preparedness executive order, and we have also updated the pandemic crisis action plan, which has been the playbook from which we’ve been working. The pandemic flu plan, again, the action plan from which we have been working that coordinates the whole of government, whole of economy approach here. So we’ve all been very focused on pandemic preparedness. That’s what we do. But this particular strain of pandemic, who would have known this particular strain?
<01:00:28>
So for an individual who had employer insurance, that’s what I mentioned in my remarks, if you were employed and had insurance through your employer and you’ve now lost your job and lost that insurance, you now do have a special enrollment period where you may enroll in the individual exchanges of the Affordable Care Act, So that’s existing law. Then what we’re doing is taking from that hundred billion dollars to providers, taking money and saying, if you’re a provider and you care for anybody who is uninsured, we’re going to compensate you for doing that.
<01:00:59>
And we’re going to compensate you at the Medicare reimbursement rates and you are not allowed to bill that uninsured individual anything. So in many respects it’s better for those uninsured individuals. They’re going to get first dollar coverage, they’re going to get care in the United States and the provider is going to be made whole from this program. So it’s really an unprecedented … What President Trump is doing here with this money is an unprecedented disease-specific support of care for individuals to make sure that people get treatment.
