<37:44>
Thank you. So yesterday the president made a very important announcement about telehealth, and this is allowing our 62 million seniors to be able to get some medical services from the safety of their home, reducing their risk and without any copays. But we’re also making sure that the healthcare system is repaired and that those on the front lines have the support that they need.
<38:04>
The reality is, the stakes are high and we need to preserve personal protective equipment for those that are on the front lines of this fight. And to that end, we have put out guidelines over the last two weeks to expand the types of masks that can be used in routine care and saving those N95s for the most risky situations.
<38:22>
Conserving personal protective equipment is also essential to combat the virus. So today, CMS will announce detailed recommendations to further promote this needed conservation, specifically by limiting non-essential elective medical and surgical procedures, including dental procedures.
<38:43>
We believe that these recommendations will help surgeons, patients, and hospitals prioritize what is essential while leaving the ultimate decision in the hands of state and local health officials and those clinicians who have direct responsibility to their patients. And we urge providers and clinicians and patients to seriously consider these recommendations. They will not only preserve equipment, but it also allows doctors and nurses to help those that are on the front lines. And it’ll protect patients from unnecessary exposure to the virus.
<39:16>
We fully appreciate that this is going to have a major impact on the healthcare system, but the shared sacrifice is essential to help those that are on the front lines. And I want to thank the medical societies such as the American College of Surgeons and the American Dental Association that took a proactive approach and already posted these recommendations. And we’ve also talked to the American Medical Association and they have fully indicated their support for this recommendation. We now invite the entire healthcare community to join us in this effort. Thank you.
