<31:53>
Thank you. From day one, the President has made his commitment to the Medicare program absolutely clear, and like few presidents before him, he’s always understood the pressing need to modernize the program and also make it more affordable for seniors. He just talked about how premiums are lower in the Medicare advantage program, we’re at a 13 year low, and in the Part D Program, which is prescription drug coverage that’s at a seven year low, which is absolutely historic. We’re putting dollars back in the pockets of our seniors.
<32:23>
Also, he talked about not only the fact that we’re lowering prices, we’re actually adding more benefits to our Medicare advantage plans. We changed the regulations to give our plans more flexibility, to provide services that will keep seniors in their homes and more independent and healthy. So that could be something like just putting a handlebar in their home to help them get up the stairs, it could be meal services after surgery, it could be pestering eradication services, but giving our seniors more services at a lower cost.
<32:53>
You also heard the President talk about the insulin program, $35 for insulin going forward. I had an opportunity to travel with the Vice President last week, and we ran into a gentleman at Dave’s Diner in Pennsylvania, and he came up to us, he showed us his insulin, and he said, “I need this for my survival. And because of the President’s leadership,” he said, “I’m going to save $5,000 a year.” So he was really excited, and I think that shows how much the President has delivered to our seniors.
<33:24>
But our work also goes beyond just the Medicare Program, and we are working to ensure that our seniors are safe in nursing homes because of the President’s early action with nursing homes in terms of restricting visitors, and also making sure that our nursing homes were supported with recommendations around infection control, 80% of our nursing homes across the country have actually done pretty well. They haven’t seen any cases of coronavirus or any deaths.
<33:52>
That being said, we are focused on the 20% of nursing homes, we’ve been working with governors, asking them to test nursing home residents and their staff, and to do that routinely so we can ensure that our nursing home residents are safe. And we’re encouraging governors to go out to these nursing homes and perform inspections, boots on the ground so that we can ensure that those nursing homes are taking the proper precautions. And then finally, the President has also convened a commission on coronavirus for nursing homes to ensure that we are delivering quality and safety to our nursing home residents. So thank you Mr. President for your leadership.
