<49:50>
Thank you, Mr. President. As the president announced earlier, we are doing a dramatic expansion of what’s known as telehealth for our 62 million Medicare beneficiaries who are amongst the most vulnerable to the Coronavirus. We’re acting in accord with the appropriations bill that was signed on March 6th, as well as the president’s emergency declaration last week. This action is a part of our broader effort to ensure that government requirements, rules and regulations, don’t get in the way of patient care during an emergency.
<50:22>
Today’s announcement, builds on the significant progress of the president has already made over the past three years around telehealth services and while we have allowed for virtual check-ins, full telehealth benefits have been restricted to those living in rural areas, established patients and just for those brief visits. But no longer; Medicare beneficiaries across the nation, no matter where they live, will now be able to receive a wide range of services via telehealth without ever having to leave home.
<50:52>
These services can also be provided in a variety of settings including nursing homes, hospital outpatient departments and more. Thanks to the leadership of HHS, will also be temporarily relaxing certain HIPAA requirements so that doctors can provide telehealth with their own phones and we’ll be using enforcement discretion when it comes to collecting copays so that cost won’t be a barrier.
<51:15>
This is a part of our larger efforts around mitigation and as we are encouraging Americans to stay home whenever possible, we don’t want our Medicare policies getting in the way. So consider the implications of this.
<51:27>
Perhaps an elderly patient with diabetes needs routine checkup and this has nothing to do with the Coronavirus. So with our new telehealth benefits, this person who’s not really, who’s at risk for the Coronavirus doesn’t have to venture outside their home. They can talk to their doctor via Skype and they don’t have to risk exposure to the virus and they can receive that care from the safety of their own home.
<51:52>
It could be another Medicare recipient who’s experiencing mild flu-like symptoms and instead of leaving the house and sitting in a waiting room full of other vulnerable people, they can also receive advice from their doctor from their home. This shift is very important for clinicians and providers who over the coming weeks, will face considerable strain on their time and resources.
<52:15>
Now Medicare patients who don’t absolutely need to come in to an office won’t have to and this allows the healthcare system to prioritize for care for those that have more needs are in dire need and preserves protective equipment as well.
<52:32>
State Medicaid agencies can also provide telehealth services without federal approval and so we’re asking all states to make this available as well. We’ve also asked private insurance companies to expand their telehealth benefits and make it clear to their providers and their members what they cover.
<52:49>
As our nation seeks to balance the twin imperatives of getting Americans the care that they need during this outbreak and limiting the spread of the virus, the impact of this historic action simply cannot be overstated. In an emergency, those on the frontline shouldn’t have to worry about federal rules and red tape hamstringing them when they need flexibility above all else and we’re doing everything in our power to make sure that that doesn’t happen.
<53:15>
Also, just want to briefly mention that because of the president’s emergency declaration, we do have the ability to provide a lot of Medicaid waivers and Florida was the first state to be approved. We were able to do that in a matter of days. Thank you.
<53:34>
They should call their doctor’s office and their doctor’s office can tell them how to do that. Also, there may be some of our Medicare members that may not have access to equipment so we’re asking family members to help with this, but also respecting the requirements around social distancing and if any of those family members or neighbors have symptoms, they should obviously stay away.
<53:55>
That’s correct.
<53:57>
Yes.
<54:00>
They can also call our 1-800-MEDICARE number and they can also get…
