<32:31>
Thank you Mr. President. I’d like to announce some very significant actions that the president has approved today.
<32:37>
The first, I would say is earlier today I sent a letter to Fed Chairman Powell approving his request to use 13<3> and what that will do is the Fed will be setting up a special purpose vehicle, which the treasury will invest $10 billion in from one of our funds. That will the Fed to guarantee the purchase of A1P1 commercial paper growing forward. That is a $1 trillion market and is critical to American workers, it’s critical to American business and it’s critical to American savers who have a lot of that money in money market funds.
<33:18>
So we heard loud and clear there were liquidity issues. This is very significant and we’ll create, I don’t think we’ll need to use it all, but we have the ability to have the Fed purchase up to $1 trillion of commercial paper is needed.
<33:34>
That has already created significant stability in the market today. The second thing I would say is we’ve previously talked about differing IRS payments. The president earlier this morning authorized me to announce this program. I have previously announced we would defer 200 billion. The president suggested we increased that to 300 billion, which will we will be doing.
<33:58>
Now let me just be clear on the specifics. We encourage those Americans who can file their taxes to continue to file their taxes on April 15th because for many Americans, you will get tax refunds and we don’t want you to lose out on those tax refunds. We want you to make sure you get them. Many people do this electronically, which is easy for them and easy for the IRS. If you owe a payment to the IRS, you can defer up to $1 million as an individual, and the reason why we’re doing $1 million is that covers lots of pass throughs and small businesses and $10 million to corporations, interest free and penalty free for 90 days.
<34:40>
All you have to do is file your taxes; you’ll automatically not get charged interest in penalties. Now of course, any American has the right to extend their taxes. We’re not taking that a right, but the president has asked us to go up to $300 billion. That’s also an enormous amount of liquidity in the system. The third thing is the president and I worked on a very significant economic stimulus plan. Thank you for being available last night and throughout this morning and I will be presenting that to the Republicans in the Senate this morning and also discussing that with the House. We look forward to having bipartisan support. We’re now working with the Senate to pass this legislation very quickly and these will be payments to small businesses. We’ve talked about loan guarantees, so to critical industries such as airlines and hotels and we’ve also talked about a stimulus package to the American worker. You can think of this as something like business interruption payments for the American workers. Thank you.
<35:57>
Although the president likes the idea that the payroll tax holiday, I will tell you what we’ve heard from many people and the president to said, we can consider this. The payroll tax holiday would get people money over the next six to eight months. We’re looking at sending checks to Americans immediately and what we’ve heard from hardworking Americans, many companies have now shut down, whether it’s bars or restaurants, Americans need cash now and the president wants to get cash now and I mean now in the next two weeks.
<36:25>
I will be previewing that with the Republicans. There’s some numbers out there. They may be a little bit bigger than what’s in the process.
<36:38>
I’ve had discussions with all the airline CEOs this week. The airline CEOs have had conversations with the Senate and the House, as the president said, I was up with a subset of the Republican senators last night. I’ve discussed that with them. I think as you know, this is worse than 9/11. For the airline industry, they are almost ground to a halt.
<37:01>
The president wants to make sure that although we don’t want people to travel and let’s, it’s critical, we want to maintain for critical travel, the right to have domestic travel.
<37:12>
I’m not going to comment on the specifics. I will tell you we’re very focused. There’s a lot of workers. This is strategically important to us and we’ll be working with Congress.
<37:40>
Well, I think it’s clear. We don’t need to send people who make $1 million a year checks. Okay. But we like, that’s one of the ideas we like. We’re going to preview that today and then we’ll be talking about details after.
<38:23>
Again, we want to make sure Americans get money in their pockets quickly. We want to make sure small business owners have access to funds. We want to make sure that hotels, airlines, we have an entire package. We’ll be laying out those details later.
<39:22>
The president has instructed me, we have to do this now. So this is now.
<39:28>
We are going to work with the Senate, who’s in session right now, actively. We will continue to have conversations with the House. I’ve already spoken to Speaker Pelosi once today. This is stuff that needs to be done now.
<39:39>
The president has instructed me that this is no fault to American workers. For medical reasons, we are shutting down parts of this economy and we’re going to use all the tools we have, as I’ve said, and what tools we don’t have, we’re going back to Congress. I’ve got to go back.
<40:57>
Let me make two comments on the restaurants and the president understands this, that this was emphasized this morning.
<41:03>
First of all, we want to make sure that the states allow the drive through portion of these fast foods to stay open. Particularly in a time period where we’re telling people don’t go to restaurants, these companies feed a big part of America and I expect they’re going to feed a bigger part of America.
<41:23>
The second thing they asked me to emphasize, I wasn’t going to do it now, but as long as you asked, many of these companies have apps. You can order ahead of time, that way when you get there, it’s as simple as they’ll have it packed, they can give it to you with social distancing and it’ll be very fast.
<41:40>
So we expect that they will be able to feed a large part of the population and in regards to support, I will say a lot of these businesses are small businesses or companies, franchisees, 500 or less, and we have a specific program we’ll be unveiling that helps all businesses, small and medium sized businesses of 500.
<42:16>
I hope so. That’s one of the reasons why we got to act very quickly because we understand whether it’s the airlines, hotels, for good reasons to protect the United States on medical issues, these businesses are shut down and the president wants to make sure, as I’ve said, we will use all the powers we have. You saw this today, trillion dollars of potential liquidity into the market and the powers we don’t have, we’re going to Congress and I will say there’s a lot of bipartisan support for these issues.
<42:47>
So I’m going to apologize because I have to go deal with some other <inaudible 00:00:42:53>.
<42:57>
I do want to comment on this. Okay. We absolutely believe in keeping the markets open. Okay. Americans need to know they have access to their money. After September 11th, the only reason why the markets were closed was because the technology was disrupted. I’ve been on the phone with the major banks, with the New York Stock Exchange; everybody wants to keep it open. We may get to a point where we shorten the hours if that’s something they need to do, but American’s should know that we’re going to do everything to make sure that they have access to their money at their banks, to the money in their 401ks and to the money in stocks. So I want to just be very clear, we intend to keep the markets open.
