<07:25>
Thank you Mr. President. Thank you Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Jovita. Mr. President, you’ve made clear to us we now need to execute. We need to get money to small business and American workers and that’s what we’re doing. The SBA and Treasury committed to get this program up and running tomorrow and when Jovita says people working around the clock, they literally, we had both teams working till four o’clock in the morning and start working again today. We’ve heard feedback from lenders, community banks, regional banks, and we’ve spent the last 24 hours making this system even easier.
<07:59>
So this will be up and running tomorrow. I encourage all small businesses that have 500 or fewer people, please contact your lenders. Any FDIC institution will be able to do this. Any credit union, existing SBA lenders and FinTech lenders. You get the money, you’ll get it the same day, you use this to pay your workers. Please bring your workers back to work. If you’ve let them go, you have eight weeks plus overhead. This is a very important program. I’m pleased to announce we are going to raise the interest rate on these loans and, again, the interest rate is paid for as part of the program. The borrower doesn’t have to pay this to 1%. We had announced it was going to be 50 basis points. We’ve heard from some smaller community banks that their deposit costs, even though the government’s borrowing at three or four basis points, this is on average a 90 loan, to make this attractive for community banks, we’ve agreed to raise the interest rate. Again, I encourage everybody take out the paycheck protection program.
<09:05>
I’m also pleased to report the economic impact payments. I had previously said this would take us three weeks. I’m pleased to report that within two weeks the first payments will be direct deposit into taxpayer’s account, and as the president said last night, the president authorized me to say that anybody that has social security recipients won’t need to file a new tax return and will have that. If we don’t have your direct deposit information, we’ll be putting up a web portal so that you can put that up. It is a very large priority. The president has made clear we want to get this money quickly into your hands.
<09:44>
I’m also pleased to report that we continue to work closely with the Federal Reserve. We’re in the process of designing a new facility that we call the Main Street Lending Facility. We’re also looking at facilities for state governments as well. And I’m also pleased to report the employee retention credit. It’s up and running. The first $10,000 of wages, you get a 50% credit. That’s $5,000 per person. For everyone who’s kept someone, you can immediately get that money. You can deduct it from what you owe the IRS immediately. If you don’t know us money, you’ll get a refundable tax credit. So that is up and running. I’m also pleased to report we have the program up and running. We’re taking applications from the airlines, from the cargo companies and from national security companies. So thank you very much Mr. President.
<10:55>
As I spoke to all the CEOs yesterday, I had a conference call with them. We got very good input from them on what they needed. As I said, people were working until four o’clock. I believe we just put up the federal register with the new guidelines for lenders. I’ve been assured that the banks will be in the process starting tomorrow. Now again, it’s going to take a little bit of time, but we committed that this will be available tomorrow and I encourage all companies, go to sba.com go to treasury.gov you can see the information you need immediately.
<11:52>
First of all, I can assure you Jovita is here. Jovita used to work for me as the treasurer. There’s no power struggle. Jovita and our team, as I said, worked together until four o’clock in the morning, started working at seven o’clock again. We’ve made the form simpler and I can assure you at five points, I’ve told these bankers they should take older traders and put them in the branches. There’ll never be another opportunity to earn five points on a 90 day fully government guaranteed loan.
<12:28>
Let me be clear. Let me be clear, I don’t know where you’re hearing these things. I told you this would be three weeks. I’m now committing to two weeks. We’re delivering on our commitments. The IRS, which I oversee, within two weeks the first money till be in people’s accounts.
<12:59>
That is not going to take five… Again, let me just say, when Obama sent out these checks, it took months and months and months. I am assuring the American public they need the money now. What we’re going to do is, again, if we have your information, you’ll get it within two weeks. Social Security, you’ll get it very quickly after that. If we don’t have your information, you’ll have a simple web portal. You’ll upload it. If we don’t have that, we’ll send you checks in the mail.
<13:29>
Again we can process a lot of checks, but we don’t want to send checks. In this environment, we don’t want people to get checks. We want to put money directly into their account.
<13:58>
We’ve brought in a lot of external resources at SBA and us to make sure there’s additional capacity. As I said, we heard a lot of good feedback yesterday to simplify this process. It’s going to be up and running now. Let me just be clear. That doesn’t mean everybody is going to get their loan tomorrow, but the system will be up and running. We encourage people over the next week. Sign up. You can go on right now. You can go on the web, see what information you need. Very simple process.
<14:37>
I’ve spoken to the leader. I’ve spoken to the Speaker. I’ve spoken to the president constantly. When the president’s ready and thinks we should do the next stage, we’re ready. The president’s talked about the issue of infrastructure since the campaign. I think you know that’s a big priority for him. Again, if we run out of money on the small business program, we’ll be back right away to Congress to get this increased.
<15:07>
Well, let me just say, we’re going through something that we’ve never done before where the government has shut down big parts of the economy because of health reasons. Our economy was in great shape. Our companies were in great shape. There are three ways that Americans are going to be protected. For small business, they’ll get paid by their business through this program, the direct deposit. There’s also enhanced unemployment. So we realize unfortunately there are a lot of companies that because they aren’t in business over a short period of time, again, we’re working with the states on enhanced unemployment and as soon as the medical professionals and the president give the all clear, we’re going to have a ton of liquidity. We have about $6 trillion. This has never been done between us and the Fed to put into the economy to support American workers and American business.
<16:20>
In designing this program, we thought that we had liquidity for about 10 weeks, and that’s what we’ve designed. And again, I think the president’s been very clear. If we need to go back to Congress to support the American economy and American workers, we will be doing that.
<16:52>
I don’t. Both parties wanted us to have oversight, wanted us to have transparency. We have full transparency. We have an oversight committee that the speaker gets to pick someone, the leader gets to pick someone. I believe there’s five people on it. And again, that that committee will review the money that we’re spending. And again, we support full transparency. Taxpayers should understand how we’re going to support this economy and jobs.
<17:33>
So thank you and let me clarify. I have very limited ability to do direct loans out of the Treasury. I can do them for passenger airlines, cargo airlines, contractors and national security companies. Outside of that, we work with the Federal Reserve to create broad-based lending facilities, which we will do. So our expectation is the energy companies like all our other companies will be able to participate in broad based facilities, whether it’s the corporate facility or whether it’s the Main Street facility, but not direct lending out of the treasury.
<18:20>
For people who don’t have direct deposit, again we’ll have an easy way they put it up. We can on a rolling basis, I think, within a couple of days when they give it to us, we’ll send the money out. We do realize there are people who are under-banked. And again we’re working with all the digital companies, prepaid debit cards. We’re working with all of them to make sure we have a process that every American gets their money quickly. This money does people no good if it shows up in four months and we will deliver on that promise.
<18:50>
Quickly as a matter of weeks and not months. That’s correct.
<19:17>
So there are very strict requirements that’s built into the bill. Again, this was a bipartisan requirement. One, anything we do with the airlines, they have to maintain substantially all of their employees. So again, any money that we provide them will go to pay their employees. We’re going to be working with the Secretary of Transportation. There are requirements to maintain certain routes. So again, we have a very clear process. We’ve hired three outside advisors, will be financial advisors and three law firms. We’ll be releasing that information shortly. And I want to thank them. They’re all working for basically very, very little money. They couldn’t work for free so they’ve agreed to basically work for what they would sign up to work for charitable organizations. So again, no big fees to bankers. We’ve got a great team of three lawyers and three financial advisors that will assist us.
<20:14>
Of course we will. We’ll give you the names as well as the contracts.
<20:20>
So again, I’m happy to announce we have the PJT Partners is going to do the passenger airlines, Moelis and Company is going to do the cargo and contractors, and Perella Weinberg will handle the national security. And there’ll be three law firms which we’ll announce shortly that will be working in each one of those sectors. And again, let me just be clear, we need to get this done quickly. The airlines need money. We’re going to work very closely with the Department of Transportation and get this done quickly. We’ve actually already received contracts from a lot of the people. Again, there’s guidance up on the web. Full transparency. We’ve asked for applications.
<21:14>
I spoke to the Speaker last night about that. This was something that was highly negotiated between the Republicans and the Democrats. The president was personally involved in this. He was on the phone with us many times. Mitch McConnell, Mark Meadows, senators on both sides. There is a specific line in the bill that says that the Secretary, meaning me, will determine proper compensation, so this is not a bail out for the airlines and I will be working, once we get our advice from our financial advisors, we get the applications from the airlines. I’ll be working very closely with the president and we’ll make sure that we strike the right balance. Not a bail out. Taxpayers get compensated. But these airlines, these are national security issues. We want to keep our airlines intact.
<22:26>
Well, the incentive that you have, and we want American business to be kept intact. The incentive is these are loans that turn into grants. So if you’re a business owner and you’re a restaurant, you can hire your people back. You get money for their medical, you keep them on the medical plan, you get money for your rent, you get money for your electricity, so you’re motivated. We want you to have a business that you can reopen quickly when it’s appropriate. So this doesn’t cost the business owners anything.
<22:57>
When people talk about it, I can’t imagine any American worker who had a job, is offered to keep their job isn’t going to want to have it. And let me just be clear, we’ve also talked about this unemployment issue. You can only get unemployment if you don’t have a job. So unemployment is intended for those people that are some of the mid-size or larger businesses and we’re very sympathetic to this, that these companies can’t afford, and for those people, the enhanced unemployment will be a significant benefit.
<23:28>
But we want to make sure 50% of the American workforce is small businesses under 500 people. The president, the vice president, the administrator and I want to make sure this part of the economy is ready and intact when we’re ready to reopen.
<24:54>
Hang on, I just want to make one comment for explanation because I want to make sure everybody out there understands this. If you’re an independent contractor, if you’re a sole proprietor, you’re eligible for this as well. Now that program won’t be up and running until next week. But again, this is a very broad definition of small business. So if you’re an independent plumber, if you’re an independent contractor, you’re covered under this program. Slightly more complicated, you have to come into your bank and give them more information. But starting next week that part of the program will be up and running. Also charities, charities as well. Very important. The vice president and president make sure that we covered small charities in this.
<25:38>
It does, although there are some technical issues, but yes, it does include faith organizations.
<25:47>
This is under the PPP yes, the new SBA program. They are covered. Thank you everybody.
<25:54>
Thank you everybody.
