<00:00>
<silence 00:00:00> Mr. President, thank you very much for coming to the NIH today. We really are very pleased-
<00:16>
We really are very, very pleased with your visit, and I want to just, again, thank you for your support of everything that we’ve been doing in this obviously very important problem. What I’ve asked is just first to have Francis Collins, our director-
<00:30>
Just make a couple of comments about the NIH in general, and then I’ll talk to you about some of the things that you and I have been talking about for the past few weeks.
<04:50>
Okay. Again, thanks again. I just want to connect what we’ve been talking about over the past few weeks. So, if I could just get the… See this slide here, remember when I mentioned that the fastest from the time that you get a pathogen, you know what it is, to the time you do a phase one trial for safety. So, look at what’s happened when SARS was in 2003, from the time we got the virus to the time we did the first phase one trial. Remember that doesn’t mean you have a vaccine, it means for safety. It was 20 months. Then H5N1 Influenza, we got it down to 11. H1N1 Influenza 4. Zika, 3.25. And now, we believe, as I’ve told you several times, it’s two to three months, I think it’s going to be two. So that kind of thing is what this place is all about. It’s kind of like the SWAT team, of going out and responding to emerging microbes.
<05:52>
So, this building, this entire center was first started in response to making a vaccine for HIV, but the crew that we brought together, and we brought the best of the best from all over the country. Dr. John Mascola is the director of this place. We do everything from fundamental basic science to the clinical trials. We would, and I say this with some pride, but also with some modesty, is that there’s a lot of questions and things that we need to do, but this group is so good at what they do, that every time we have a challenge and that challenge could be flu, that challenge can be Ebola, that challenge could be anything. We always turn to this team to do that, and it’s really something that we feel that we’re proud of, but I think the nation should know that these are the kind of things that we have available for them. John, you want to?
<07:06>
Just to give you a comparison, because we always talk about SARS, and we always talk about MERS, and things like that. If we could have, just go through the slide. I just want to go to the next slide. This is an article that I wrote a little while ago, and I called it Coronavirus infections – More Than the Common Cold. The reason is, up until recently, coronaviruses were mild things. They were just common cold, and they just… Next slide. In fact, those are all different kinds of viruses. The ones with with the red circle around them are the four viruses that cause the common cold. That was until 2002. Then we got a big surprise, and the surprise was, next, is that we had the severe acute respiratory syndrome and that was SARS. Multiple years later we got the Middle East respiratory syndrome.
<08:03>
But a story that you may remember. Next slide. In China, in the Guangdong Province, history repeats itself. Mr President. In China in the Guangdong Province, there was this strange disease that came up that nobody knew what it was. The Chinese didn’t really tell anybody about it for a few months. November until it got to Hong Kong. When it got to Hong Kong. Next slide. In a hotel in Hong Kong, this was way back in 2003, someone from China went to the hotel, infected a bunch of people. Next slide. And this is what you had. You had flights going. At the time, we didn’t make any restrictions the way you did, which I think saved us a really a lot of hurt. Next slide. And then this is what happened. There were 8000 cases, 774 deaths, and that’s how I get the number that I’ve been telling you, that the mortality of SARS was about nine to 10%. If you do that math, that’s what it is.
<09:02>
Right. Next slide. The other one is the MERS coronavirus, which was the one that was in Saudi Arabia. That was also from an animal reservoir. Next. In fact, it was from a bat. Next. From a bat, to a camel. And then for the people in the Middle East who got it, that was the infection there. So these are the kinds of things that go from an animal reservoir to a human. Sometimes it doesn’t go anywhere, it just goes one or two people. But sometimes it adapts itself to function very, very, very efficiently. Next. And that’s what happened. We had MERS coronavirus in Saudi Arabia. We had a few cases in the United States, but not many. And finally. Next. This is where we are right now, with the coronavirus. And then just getting back to the last, we got this sequence about a week after the Chinese were able to put it up on the board. And next. And then these are the things that we do. Therapeutics, vaccines. So we’ll stop there, but we’d really like to hear some comments from you, Mr. President. You want to?
<14:43>
This is the NIH, that’s it.
<18:06>
Do you want Mr. Secretary?
<22:51>
We’re going to take you upstairs now, okay?
<22:58>
And we’re going to have Kizzmekia tell you a little bit about what she’s doing. <crosstalk 00:23:01>
