(15:27)
Thank you, Mr. President. President Trump has made clear from the first days of this administration, we have no higher priority than the safety, security, health and wellbeing of the American people. And from the first word of an outbreak of the coronavirus, the president took unprecedented steps to protect the American people from the spread of this disease. He recounted those briefly, but the establishment of travel restrictions, aggressive quarantine effort of Americans that are returning, the declaration of a public health emergency, and establishing the White House Corona Task Force are all reflective of the urgency that the President has brought to a whole of government approach. As a former governor, from the state where the first MERS case emerged in 2014, I know full well the importance of presidential leadership, the importance of administration leadership, and the vital role of partnerships of state and local governments and health authorities in responding to the potential threat of dangerous infectious diseases.
(16:43)
I look forward, Mr. President, to serving in this role. I’m bringing together all the members of the Corona Task Force that you’ve established. HHS, CDC, DHS, the Departments of Transportation and State. This team has been, at your direction Mr. President, meeting every day since it was established. My role will be to continue to bring that team together, to bring to the President the best options for action to see to the safety and wellbeing and health of the American people. We’ll also be continuing to reach out to governors, state and local officials. In fact, in recent days, the White House met with over 40 state, county, and city health officials from over 30 States and territories to discuss how to respond to the potential threat of the coronavirus. We’ll be working with them in renewed ways to make sure they have the resources to be able to respond. And as the President said, we’ll be adding additional personnel here at the White House, to support our efforts on the President’s behalf.
(17:53)
We’ll also be working with members of Congress to ensure that the resources are available for this whole of government response, and we’ll be working very closely with Secretary Azar and his team that had done an outstanding job communicating to the public, to ensure the American people have the best information on ways to protect themselves and their families, and also that the public has the most timely information on the potential threat to the American people. Mr. President, as we’ve been briefed, while the threat to the American public remains low of a spread of the coronavirus, you have directed this team to take all steps necessary to continue to ensure the health and wellbeing of the American people, and the people of this country can be confident that under your leadership, we will continue to bring the full resources of the federal government in coordination with our state and local partners, to see to the health and wellbeing and to the effective response to the coronavirus here in the United States of America. With that, the president has asked me to recognize the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex Azar, and also the Deputy Director of CDC, Dr. Anne Shocket for remarks. Secretary.
