<01:36:31>
Well ICE looks at on a case by case basis, even well before COVID, on looking at certain detention facilities and determine on a case by case basis if they do need to release individuals. When we do that, we often put them on alternatives to detention as well. In the case of COVID, we’re looking at vulnerable populations. Again, ICE is doing that in conjunction with CDC and other medical professionals. In some cases, we do need to do that for the health and safety, and the wellbeing of those detainees. But again, that’s a case by case basis. We’re not going to make any blanket statement that we’re going to release individuals of whole groups at a time. So it’s really important. I’ve said it twice now, it’s really a case by case basis determining the health of that particular population or detainee, the facility they’re in. Different facilities have different capabilities, whether it’s an ICE owned facility or it’s a contractor owned facility. So we’re certainly doing that. We’re doing that today. We’ve been doing that for the past several weeks.
<01:37:35>
Absolutely. We continue to build miles of the wall every day. We’re up to over 150 I believe. We’re continuing to build new miles of wall. A lot of folks ask about a replacement wall or new miles. It’s a new capability on our Southwest border that we haven’t had before. So whether you talk to the agents, the border patrol agents, they like that capability, they like that impedance and denial that it provides them. It provides the ability for those agents to focus elsewhere on parts of the border that are very difficult to patrol. So we can use our resources in a different way. So we see a lot of benefits from the border wall system. Again, that includes not only the physical infrastructure, but the cameras, the roads, the lighting’s, the fiber optic cables. We’re looking forward and we’re still well on our track, well on our mark to meet 400, 450 miles by the end of the calendar year.
<01:38:43>
Well, at the direction of the vice president and the task force, we are looking at a number of different options with the H2A workers that you’ve mentioned. On how do we either extend the validity of their visa, or looking at a couple of different options. Nothing to announce here today. But again, at the direction of the president and the vice president, we’re looking at a variety of different options that I think we will have soon and it’d be very beneficial.
