<38:11>
Thank you very much for that. As we talked about yesterday, we’re really entering a new phase of testing. At first we were at the initial phase where the CDC-developed test was only available in public health laboratories and the CDC. Works very well for a few thousand tests per day after it gets running. We’re now moving into a phase that the big commercial laboratories with high throughput screening have availability. As we talked about last week, because of the historic efforts of the FDA Roche test, and as the President predicted, a Thermo Fisher test were both produced last week under an emergency use authorization. 1.9 million of those tests will be sequentially into the ecosystem this week.
<38:59>
From the information we have right now, 1 million tests are available with all the reagents, everything ready to go, primarily at the reference labs called Quest, LabCorp and a couple others. Now it doesn’t matter if they are not in your neighborhood because every day when people get tests, a little white box goes out in front, it gets shipped by an incredible distribution system, the test result, and it’s electronically reported. These are available to people nationwide.
<39:27>
We expect more and more than 1 million coming onboard this week as the reagents come up and as people with the testing capacity validate that in their own hospitals and other places. In the future, we expect at least 2 million next week and at least 5 million the week thereafter. There are also a whole growth of what’s called laboratory-determined testing or laboratory-derived testing where individual laboratories because of the regulatory deregulation of the FDA, can develop their own tests and start using them. If you’re a CLIA-certified lab with complexity, you can do that.
<40:06>
The point is testing is now entering sort of what we normally do in the healthcare system where big labs in a high throughput basis receive these through normal channels. That part of that is really underway.
<40:25>
There is a number. I don’t have that number because I’ve been working on setting up this distribution system. This is where we are. The state and public health laboratories and the CDC are published everyday on the CDC website. The CDC gets feeds from LabCorp and Quest. They get that on a daily basis. What is not being received right now and Ambassador Birx is fixing is that these homegrown tests in highly complex labs don’t necessarily get reported in the system.
<40:56>
However, as we move forward, particularly in the height, in the commercial phase of where we are right now, we expect about 80% to 85% of the tests to flow right into the CDC. We know them. That’s not good enough for Ambassador Birx. She wants a 100% and we’ll work on that.
<41:23>
Let me just say that we talked about the drive-thru testing yesterday. I want it to be clear to everybody. This is just another tool for states and local public health systems and healthcare systems to use. It’s not replacing testing that goes on in a doctor’s office or in a hospital or if you go to your doctor and want to get tested in that office. This is just another tool that we’re helping the states to have.
<41:46>
Again as we talked about, this is modeled on the FEMA-based points of distribution system optimized for testing. We expect this week, we now have gear, people being shipped right now, today that will be in over 12 states with multiple sites, many of states having multiple sites to start augmenting the local capacity and really providing the state and the local people what they need as another way for people to get tested.
<48:48>
We certainly expect with the high throughput testing that that’s no longer a barrier. The barrier is actually doing the test on a person. And I’m sure as the president would inform you in order to do the test, a healthcare provider needs to dress in full personal protective equipment, full personal protective equipment. And there’s a swab that’s put in the back of the nose all the way to the back of the throat. It’s called a nasal pharyngeal swab, which is then put in media. The next person who has to get tested, that healthcare provider has to change all the personal protective equipment. When you put that in, it’s highly likely a person coughs or sneezes so you’re at risk. So that’s what we’re trying to fix now by the mobile platforms, by all the things we’re doing is to enable high throughput of this swabbing. And we’re doing some technological things too that might be breakthroughs to make it much, much faster. But we certainly expect that from thousands of people per day we will be at the tens of thousands of people per day this week according to those who are <inaudible 00:49:51>
