<12:22>
Well, thank you Mr. President for your leadership and for your high expectations that really made this all come together and for the uniform support of everyone in the White House and the administration. Thank you, secretary Azar for providing his leadership at HHS and allowing both Brad and I, the opportunity to work on this project. I think it’s clear that America does lead the world in testing. I’ll go through some of the charts that show that we lead quantitatively. I will also suggest that we lead in the diversity of tests, which are very important to establish the testing ecosystem, to keep America safe, and clearly, as we’ve said, multiple times, no one beats America when it comes to quality.
<13:04>
So let’s start potentially with the next slide. This may be hard to see, but if you look at the line on top, that’s the total numbers of tests done by the United States. No other country in the world comes close to the total numbers. Again, as the president has said, today we will top over 9 million tests. If you look at per capita, everyone talks about South Korea being the standard, today we will have done more than twice their per capita rate of testing that was accomplished in South Korea. No matter how you look at it, America is leading the world in testing. How did we get there? Let’s look at the next slide. Next slide please. A very important component of how we came to this point, was the authorization by the FDA, under the leadership of our secretary of many different diagnostic tests of diagnostic devices and now a serology tests.
<14:06>
So, you’ve heard a lot about the different testing and you see some of the machines up here, most of the diagnostic tests, all but one, rely on the amplification of the viral RNA, the viral genetic material. And we’ve talked to you about the diversity of tests. They’re very high throughput tests that are done at big reference labs, like LabCorp and Quest. But very importantly, there are also tests, and you heard us talk about Cepheid, delivering over 2 million tests, vitally important to rural Americas and to places that do not have very large infrastructure. You’ve also seen the Abbott’s test, we’ve talked about, there it is on the left of the president, delivering about 1.4 million tests as a point of care test.
<14:51>
You get the result within five to 15 minutes, and we have deployed over 235,000 of these tests to the state public health laboratories in every state of this country to make sure that that point of care testing capability is there to research outbreaks like in nursing homes or in certain industrial capacities, and well over 90,000 to the Indian Health Service, so they could test at a point of care in remote locations. The president also talked about a new first in class test. It’s listed there as an antigen based test. This is very important and you’ve heard ambassador Birx talk about this multiple times, because antigen testing, although complex is much less complex than the nucleic acid testing that we’ve had.
<15:39>
Quidel, had this authorized by the FDA, and as the president said, we’ll soon be making over 300,000 tests per day. Do the math, that’s 9 million point of care tests that we will have every month in just a few weeks. It will clearly add to and to a certain degree transform our landscape, which you don’t see up here is the important …
<16:03>
… form our landscape. What you don’t see up here is the important work the FDA did. I’m a swab guy now. I’m very interested in swabs. In order to make all these tests work, you have to show that a certain swab, made of a certain material, performed in a certain way, delivers a highly accurate result.
<16:18>
And what you’re seeing up here is some of the fruits of that labor. Without the authorizations, or for example, the foam nasal swab, we would be blowing through PPE all across the country because of the need for a full PPE just to take a test. That has really been changed by this diverse authorization and a recent authorization that allows the great manufacturer, U.S. Cotton, to join our foundational industry of Puritan. Next slide.
<16:45>
Last week we did over 1.9 million tests and that number is growing. And again, as the President said and Brad will talk about, our states aspire to do well over 12 million tests over the next four weeks. You see the graph growing. What you also see very importantly is that little orange bar on the bottom is the cumulative number of positives. Our percent positives are going down, and that’s what we want to see.
<17:10>
In fact, in 31 states as of last night, the positivity rate is less than 10%, which is not a litmus test, but is a good idea that we’re doing plenty enough testing that we can enter phase one for careful reopening. I also want to take the opportunity to say this doesn’t happen by accident. I’m seeing everyone in the audience here, and I’m so pleased that they can be here. People sitting in the front have been working literally 18 to 20 hours a day every single day of the week for at least the past two months.
<17:42>
None of this happens by accident. It happens because their hard work, their sacrifice, their sacrifice of their family, all for a common good. And I’m very, very honored to consider you all as my colleagues. And my last slide, as the President said, $11 billion are now being announced to be delivered to the states for the sole support of testing. This will give them the resources to partner as they have with the federal government, with the President, the Vice President, the task force, with Brad and I to achieve their testing goals.
<18:18>
And we’re going to be very specific and they know it that there needs to be minimum numbers to be planned to test. They have to have plans for their vulnerable communities, including nursing homes, including those who are disabled, including those who are in prisons or who have working environments that they may have a more likelihood to spread the infection.
<18:39>
And combined with that, the Secretary’s Office of Minority Health will soon be awarding a large contract to guarantee a national network of state, local, and community-based organizations to assure that those underserved, particularly racial and ethnic minorities, are linked the services that they need, not only testing, but in care as well.
<19:03>
And with that, I’d like to hand it over to Brad Smith, who’s the Director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, but has really been the chief operating officer to make all of this come together. Brett.
<33:11>
When you look at the testing numbers that we worked with collaboratively with the state leadership, it’s not just with the governor, but the state health officers, the state epidemiologists, the public health labs. It’s really a combination of testing those who need something for diagnosis, diagnostic testing, tracing, so testing those who have been around the people with the diagnosis. But the largest fraction of that is really moving into surveillance, that is testing those who are asymptomatic.
<33:39>
And when you do the numbers, this amount of testing on a state to state basis, really is in the range that we need to accomplish all of that, certainly within the range that we need. So it really encompasses those three things. The other thing I would say is, particularly as we move into the summer, there are surveillance mechanisms. And I talked about them before, like a weather radar. And just think about that weather radar. The influenza-like illness network, which is at about 75% of healthcare institutions, and syndromic surveillance. So if we see a blip on that weather radar, combined with CDC personnel in every single state and with contact tracers, we really run to the fire, right? And that’s when you detect, you trace and you shut off that outbreak right when it starts.
<37:33>
So thank you for pointing that out. And again, I’ve said many times, I’m a pediatrician and a pediatric ICU doctor. This syndrome, which we call, or similar to Kawasaki syndrome. It has been seen in a novel coronavirus before and it’s associated with illnesses. So we have a very strong activation on this. We do no treatments for this, but the CDC is interacting actively with the pediatric intensive care unit network to create case definitions and to understand how this is going. And if there are predispositions.
<38:07>
The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, I spoke to Dr. Gary Gibbons, who directs that, who is advancing many research projects based on that. The ASPAR, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, has a team out in several areas, looking at if there are any special treatments. We know what the basic treatment is, but this is a little bit different than we normally see.
<38:30>
So there really is an activation among all the branches within HHS, working with networks at children’s hospitals in ICU nets. It is a small percentage, but it is quite frightening. And this reflects the fact that this virus affects the vasculature. We see clotting, we see strokes. And this is a vasculature phenomenon of inflammation we see in children.
<39:25>
Yes, sir. Most do recover from this, but it is a serious and it can be a fatal condition. So we do want to make sure that parents understand that high fevers, red rashes, particularly in your child, you may need to contact your healthcare provider. There are treatments for this. They work very effectively if gotten early, at least for the vast majority of the cases.
<51:42>
So this is a very fundamental concept and I’m so happy you brought that up because it underlies a lot of the questions here. If you test negative just at that one point, that just means you have tested negative for that point in time. We know that the incubation period for this virus can be many days. So the CDC guidelines really says that if you’re in close contact, just testing negative on that one day doesn’t mean you won’t be positive later on. So the prudent and the recommended thing to do is to self-isolate yourself for the entire period of incubation and really then some. So that’s what they’re doing. It’s a precautionary manner because they were negative. We all hope that they remain negative, but if they turn positive in a day or two or became symptomatic, that’s still possible even with a negative test.
<54:07>
So everybody who needs a test can get a test. We have plenty of tests for that <inaudible 00:00:54:14>. Right now in America anybody who needs a test can get a test in America with the numbers we have. If you are symptomatic with a respiratory illness, that is an indication for a test and you can get a test. If you need to be contact traced, you can get a test. And we hope and not hope, we are starting to have asymptomatic surveillance, which is very important. Again, that’s over three million tests per week. That is sufficient for everyone who needs a test, symptomatic, contact tracing, and to our best projections the asymptomatic kind of surveillance we need to get that and that that’s the way it is. And remember, I work at HHS, I work there every day. I don’t get tested every day. I get monitored for my symptoms. Am I febrile? Do I have any other symptoms? I wear a mask when I go in.
<55:07>
That’s a safe work environment for the environment we have. If I became symptomatic, I would get a test. And if it were positive, I would isolate and there’d be contact tracing to stop that just the way it was done here. If I’m not symptomatic, I do the precautions as everyone has recommended in phase one and that’s the essence of safely opening America.
<55:57>
Let me clarify as well. People who come into close contact with the President get tested on a regular basis, okay. If I were not in close contact with the President specifically, I would not get tested like most people here do not get tested. That’s a very specific circumstance. When I work at HHS, I go at HHS, I don’t get tested. I do the exact thing that we ask Americans to do to monitor your symptoms. If you are symptomatic, self-isolate, get tested, with one of our community based testing sites, at your hospitals. There are even at home testing now that has been authorized. And to cooperate that if you need to be contact traced, be contact traced and cooperate with your local public health. But not everybody who walks in here gets tested every time they do. If you’re symptomatic here, at HHS, at a meat packing plant, at a school, you need to get tested.
<57:41>
I think we’ve been clear all along that we believe and the data indicate we have enough testing to do the phase one gradual reopening that has been supported in the President’s plan and the task force plan. And it has to be a phased reopening. Nobody’s saying turn the light switch on and everyone go, because then it would be really impossible to control the spread of the virus. There are many, many models out there. The Rockefeller Foundation published their recommendations of about three million tests per week. That’s exactly what we’re doing. If you look at our agent based models, it’s far below that. If you take the Safra Center at Harvard and correct their misassumptions, like on the sensitivity of the test, the mitigation processes and how many people get hospitalized, you get about that number.
<58:30>
Now I am not going to come here and say, we can absolutely swear it’s God’s truth that this is the number we need, but we know we have enough to open and we’re going to be very careful with our ILINet, with our surveillance programs and what the data come in to inform us even further as we grow and learn. And I think Brad may-
