<02:15:58>
Thank you Mr vice president. Can I have the ventilator slide back up and just stop there right, thank you. So you start with what’s in the stockpile this morning and then here’s the contract that we’ll be delivering over the next few weeks. We had 8,600 ventilators to the pool we already have. That’s the math that you get there. That’s included the DPA action with GM and we’ll say that we’ve also issued what would be called rated orders with all of these vendors to allow them front of the line privileges so to speak within their supply chain. So there’s written the contract, this is the a hundred thousand plus families we were talking about and they continue to work with them too ensure that the ventilators actually show up. So those continue to work there. And as we did that, we realized that downstream supply chains needed some additional defense production act work as well.
<02:16:59>
You go out to the air bridge, eight flight’s scheduled, 37 complete, 43 on the horizon and you could see the numbers of material that’s been brought in to supplement the volume that’s that’s needed. I’m going to go through a series of slides of New York first. Dr. Birx provides me what I would call as a geographic reference to align the supply chain. So all of those cities, you’ll see a little bit of a theme here. I’ll be talking about a lot of the cities and geographic areas. I align the supply chain to those geographic areas to try to get as much there while realize the rest of the nation needs supplies as well. And then we aligned the supply chain to site of care, public hospitals, VA private hospitals, nursing homes, first responders, acute care and on down the line. So the last business week, so Monday of last week through Friday, Saturday of the past week, these are the mass materials that came into the New York, New Jersey Metro area. And you could see the volumes there.
<02:18:22>
So you can go to Detroit. We talked about their hotspot, here’s the volumes of deliveries going into Detroit for that same time period. You can go to Chicago and I’m going to run through this kind of quick, but you can see that the geographic alignment, the places that Dr. Birx has talked about is where we’re concentrating supplies. You can go to New Orleans to give you an understanding. Washington DC all right so Joe Nan talked about that. Today was a very kind of early entry into the Washington DC, Baltimore, positioning supplies ahead of need we hope in Washington. Go to Baltimore and you could see the volumes there are trying to get ahead of that and it ended up. Philadelphia’s next.
<02:19:21>
And then now the next slide is a nine city roll up. And so to save a little time, I did not include Boston and Houston in there. So you could see the volume of material flowing through a commercial network, Airbridge, their supplies and the geographic regions and then further prioritize to site of care. Now final topic, N95 masks so the department of defense announced a DPA action this weekend that came over from DOD on Friday into the white house approved on Saturday and contract awarded today 131,000,000 five companies 3M, Honeywell <inaudible 02:20:16> and Drager. The cares act was signed before March was ending or towards the end their, so essentially two weeks from that money being put in the title three authority for DOD. This action takes us from a baseline of what was being produced domestically of about 30 million masks upwards to as we go through the fall into the end of the winter, 120 million masks domestically.
<02:20:51>
So currently we’re filling some of that demand from overseas sources. And so the additive masks here through this will ramp up lower dependence on oversee sources and that will essentially secure a big piece of the supply chain. Five companies, six cities, Smithfield, Rhode Island, Phoenix Arizona, Del Rio Texas, Lexington, North Carolina, Sheboygan falls, Wisconsin and Aberdeen North Dakota, all either producing more fabric or increasing production facilities to have that ramp up.
<02:23:06>
I came over from the Pentagon 20th of March, so I’ll speak from the 20th March on now. We’re using the defense production act. I think you’ll see a much more use of that as we go forward. You know we make-
<02:23:21>
I’m not equipped to talk about other than from about the 20th of March forward. I was over at the joint staff I wasn’t <inaudible 02:23:29>.
