<54:17>
Well, thank you very much. As we talked about earlier this week, the commercial system is rapidly advancing in the testing capabilities. As of today, our public health laboratories, meaning the CDC and the public health labs, have reported out 31,878 tests, so almost 32,000 tests. The clinical laboratories, the Association of Clinical Laboratories, have reported out about 27,000 tests. Most importantly of those 27,000 during the cumulative period of time, 8,200 of them were yesterday. This is showing the dramatic ramp as the high throughput comes in. We don’t have the numbers this morning from the American Hospital Association, which means all the individual hospital laboratories we will have that upcoming in the next day or so. Then Ambassador Birx will have this whole process fixed under with the legislation that everything will roll up into a common reporting probably by the end of next week.
<55:18>
In terms of our drive-thru laboratories, again, these are blossoming all over the country by individual states. The ones that we are heavily involved in and really pushing equipment to, we expect over the next few days to begin setting up 47 of these in approximately 12 states. The material is already palletized and being shipped to the locations. Most cities have the specific locations. Some do not, but it’s still gone to a central receiving. We know that we’ll be deploying at least 140 commissioned corps officers. About half of the sites have reported their requirements. About 140 officers will be going. We expect that to go up. This is going on the way we expected.
<56:03>
We did a trial site yesterday with a full mobile unit for drive-thru with full PPE. We had a lot of kinks in the system as you can expect. That’s why we do a test before we go out into the field. Don’t expect these to be 100% perfect the moment they come. They’re going to be adapted to the state and the local situation. But we’re very confident that these will add testing to the already very robust healthcare system and commercial system. Thank you, Mr. President.
