<20:03>
… Over the last 72 hours, as we worked on this critically important project. So as the Vice President said over the past 72 hours, we have developed and are beginning to implement now a process and a program of testing that will enable Americans who are in need of coronavirus testing to be tested effectively and efficiently according to a few principles.
<20:28>
Number one, we want to assure that those most vulnerable and those impacted are able to be prioritized. Number two, we don’t want to do testing that in any way threatens the acute care system. In other words, we don’t want people going to hospitals and acute care clinics where number one, they could infect other people or subject themselves to infections. And number three, we want to balance the needs across the entire healthcare system among diagnosis, but also treatment. In other words, we want the balance, the stress on the strategic national stockpile, and all our commodities so that everyone gets all the materials they need.
<21:09>
So what do we do? Because as the Vice President said, last week’s historically fast approval of high throughput testing, we are now in a new phase of testing. And you’ve heard Dr. Fauci talk about the new phase. So we’re going from somewhat manual, relatively slow phases, to a testing regimen that we can test many tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of individuals per week and maybe even more. We will have 1.9 million of these high throughput tests available this week with numerous labs up to 2000, starting to turn the lights on beginning this week and rolling out over the week.
<21:47>
That is really a game changer for us because the back of the shop testing capability is there. The front of the shop is what we’ve been really working on. In order to get a test there, you’ve got to be able to swab individuals, get them into the system without completely paralyzing the entire healthcare system as we have. So with the emergency declaration, this was very, very important to us because it really enabled the historically effective processes of working and empowering states. Federally-supported state-led efforts through the normal FEMA mechanisms.
<22:24>
So for the last 72 hours, representatives of FEMA from across the government and our Commission Corps have been working on joining the unique and unprecedented public health mission with the historically successful mission of personal distribution centers, places for distribution, the pod system of FEMA. Our public health service, we’ve already deployed over a thousand officers in support of the coronavirus missions that includes to the Diamond, to the borders, to the quarantine stations, to the acute care settings where we’re caring for nursing home residents in Seattle. So we have a very experienced group and we brought these together.
<23:14>
So what we’ve really designed and how we’re working with the states, we have contacted all 50 states through the FEMA system, every single region, every single state, to understand where they are. As the Vice President said, some states are rolling out some of their own community-based testing. They need to be augmented. We believe we’ve created a model based on the public health and the FEMA system that is optimized that can be used for drive through, or potentially walk through. Each of these pod based units we believe can screen 2,000 to 4,000 individuals a day for testing, with all the appropriate personal protective gear, all the appropriate backend and linkage to the public health system including testing. We know that we have the logistics to do that. We know we have the materials to do that. And again, this is federally-supported state-led efforts. Many states need the full meal deal. They want dozens of public health service officers to work in protective gear to actually test. They need supplies like protective gear, they need swabs, they need logistical supports. Other states only need a fraction of that. They may have all the personnel, but they really need the knowhow, the template, and some of the gear that we provide. We are going to start implementing this system this week in a number of states, primarily those that are the hardest hit right now or are on the rise and the CDC has advised us that that’s when they need the testing.
<24:48>
I want to emphasize again that we’re focusing on two very important groups. And you’ll hear this said three or four different ways. And the groups that really can be the most impacted or impactful in our outbreak. Number one, is healthcare workers and first responders. This is very important for two reasons. Number one, we have to take care of the healthcare workers in responders because when America needs them, they need to be available, healthy, to provide the care that we all deserve. But it’s also important that if they feel they have a risk of having contacted coronavirus, that we test them so they cannot spread that, for example in longterm care facilities where the elderly are.
<25:29>
And the second group would be the elderly. And we are classifying that according to risk as those 65 years of age or older, who have a respiratory symptom and a fever of 99.6. That’s a lower number than you’ve seen before, because those who are older do not spike high fevers like children do, 104, 105, so you set the bar just a little bit lower. We do that because we know that they are high risk of bad consequences. And if they test positive, they can engage with their practitioner or tell a health provider, or get in the system to make sure they have a just an outstanding outcome.
<26:06>
So that is really where we are. We’ve made really unprecedented progress. You will see these sites rolling out progressively over the week. This is not make believe, this is not fantasy. We’ve developed a model, we’ve talked to the states, we’re focusing in on specific locations now. We will start shipping gear stuff tomorrow. We will start deploying officers tomorrow and Tuesday, and we’ll begin seeing these sites in addition to the ones that are springing up now implemented during this week. We will have the capability of testing tens of thousands of additional people through these sites every week in addition to all the capability that’s now going to be distributed in the 2000 laboratories in the major central core laboratories.
<26:54>
And I know you have a number of questions that hopefully in the question and answer session we’ll be able to answer for you. But I think this is just a great linkage. I’m a pediatric ICU doctor. I take care of sick people. I know what happens when you get respiratory illness. The surgeon general is an anesthesiologist who takes care of people who have respiratory difficulties and manages that. So we know how this works. We’ve been there. The most important thing we’ve worked on right now is making testing accessible because of the advances of the FDA and private industry to make these high throughput tests. Now we can work on the front end with the emergency declaration.
<27:30>
We have all the tools and all of government has really come together with industry, not just government and states. It’s really been private industry, the manufacturers to bring the swabs, the personal protective gear, the laboratory testing, the shipping, the fronts with Walgreens and Walmarts working as potential sites. This has been something in my mind has been unprecedented the entire society approach working so intensely over the past, certainly over the past weeks but incredibly on this project over the past 72 hours.
<51:45>
So in our design, I just want to emphasize, we talk about testing and we talk about so many things, but we’re really talking people. And we’re trying to make this a very person centric experience to easily access the system, to give clear guidance about how to go, when to go, information that even if you’re not really indicated for testing, information you need to help protect yourself and your family. And then on the back end, very customized reporting. And we’re talking literally about having telephonic services to call individuals who’ve been tested, let them know yes, no, and what the next steps are.
<52:24>
So we’ve tried to really envision this through a patient experience. Now let me talk about the testing. Progressively over this week there will be rollout to different laboratories of approximately 1.9 million tests. There are many centralized laboratories, the behind the curtain that you never see after you give your blood. And you saw some of the CEOs in the Rose Garden last week like Quest and LabCorp that are fully able ready to run. They have been testing already, but fully able ready to run within the first part of this week, the very high throughput testing. The 2000 laboratories that are around the country that have a different platform, one that’s amenable to so many labs, not the big hugest highest output, but very high throughput laboratories, are progressing. They have to adapt the test slightly to their machines and get used to this. They will start lighting up Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. I can’t give you the precise timeline except it has been an absolute priority of the laboratory associations of Thermo Fisher, the company that made this test, you heard the President predict that it might be approved within 24 hours on Friday. I think it was five hours after that in the middle of the night that the FDA approved that. And that’s the one that’s going to be widely disseminated, high throughput that’s going to be available.
<53:50>
So I know you want a specific time when these will light up progressively over the week. When that happens, there will be a centralized opportunity like in the Quest and the LabCorp. There will also be distributed opportunities like in all the major hospital systems and labs that are in your area. And then that number of 1.9 million goes up dramatically in the weeks coming forward. I’m not going to say that the lab testing issue is over because it’s not, it’s entering the next phase, but the much higher priority now is now that we have the testing available, how do we get people into the system to be tested in the appropriate prioritized way? And that’s what we’ve really been focused on. Information, website, points of distribution model that are tried and true, enabling the states, providing them with equipment, supplies, know how and Commission Corps officers as needed to help man these, or staff these, as we move forward. So you’ll see this rapidly developing over the week.
