<24:37>
Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. As I told you earlier last week, we are in the process and are effectively transitioning to large scale testing by leveraging all the components of the American healthcare system. When we started, it was CDC only, then it was the state public health laboratories, now we’re transitioning into the mainstream of American testing with many of the companies that the president invited in the Rose Garden just a week ago. So currently, 91 public health laboratories, state public health laboratories, are up and running in 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. This is our curve and I want to be very clear about this, that this only accounts for CDC, state public health laboratories, and the laboratories that are members of the American Clinical Laboratory Association. These are the main reference laboratories, Labcorp, Quest, Mayo, <inaudible 00:25:37>, BioReference Labs, and Sonic Healthcare. It does not account for the well over 10,000, 15,000 hospital-based labs, many of which are doing testing for whom we will get data this week to give you an overall roll out.
<25:52>
As you can see over 195,000 people in America have completed their testing. That means tests plus results. This does not count the people whose tests are in process. And as you see this curve is going, it will continue to rise dramatically over the next period of time. So again, this is utilizing all the components of the great American healthcare system, the state and local public health laboratories, the hospital system, which is not represented here, and the main reference laboratories.
<26:27>
Now, I do want to make it clear that although testing is becoming more available and Dr. Fauci will definitely emphasize this more, there are priorities for testing. And clearly everyone across the country should understand that those hospitalized or in an ICU or a priority for testing. Symptomatic healthcare workers, for obvious reasons, we want to make sure that their health is preserved and that they are not going to spread to those who may be seriously ill. Symptomatic people in longterm care facilities, as the vice president has highlighted and we’ve said many times, elderly in our society have a much higher mortality rate, much higher serious complication rate. Symptomatic individuals over 65, symptomatic individuals who have underlying conditions like chronic heart disease or liver disease or other types of chronic diseases, patients in public health investigations, and there are local priorities around the country, particularly healthcare workers for testing. And Dr. Fauci is going to emphasize this about the types of people who may not be to be testing. Testing is going well, it’s ramping up, but we should still have priorities.
<27:37>
Finally, I want to talk about the community-based testing sites. I know they’re popular now because there’s now an acronym which I’m sure the vice president doesn’t appreciate, CBTS or CBT sites. We talked about these earlier in the week and I wanted to emphasize again that these are state managed and locally executed. The federal government is there to provide support, knowhow, blueprints on how to do this, but these are really springing up at dozens and dozens of sites all over the country adapted to the local needs. Some are drive through, some are up, some are geared to healthcare workers and emergency responders. So again, what we see in the upcoming week is this curve will continue to increase as testing becomes more widely available. As the great American health care industry continues to increase the availability of tests and the throughput of those tests. Thank you, sir.
<54:12>
I just like to address that for a moment. Again, I’m an ICU physician, ran health systems and I first of all want to thank everyone who’s on the front line in the emergency room, in the ICUs, in the hospitals. I speak to my colleagues daily. We need to preserve our PPE to the degree that we can. CDC guidelines has had that. The President has talked about it. But I also want to say we are making product as the President said, but we are also responding through the FEMA system to distribute the strategic national stockpile resources according to requests that come in. Stockpile has been distributed to many states, first order, second orders and on a daily basis adjudicating that. If there are shortages in your hospital system, I can’t tell you if Dr. X, Y, Z, that needs to be clearly iterated to the local emergency management.
<55:13>
We were on the phone two nights ago or three nights ago with over 2000 hospitals or hospital systems sharing best practices from Seattle where they’ve been very innovative, pioneering some of these areas. When there is a shortage, they need to go through their emergency management. It goes directly up to the FEMA system, which really rocks. It really works very, very well and then there’s the distribution of the stockpile. Now the stockpile isn’t infinite, that’s why it’s being replaced by all the orders. But, mask supplies go out on a daily basis as they are needed and requested through the FEMA system. And I don’t know, Administrator Gaynor, whether you want to add to that.
<01:16:11>
So I’m going to answer your question and then try to persuade you to stop asking a specific number, okay? So from March 2nd to March 14th we have put over 10 million laboratory tests into the US commercial market, and we expect that by March 28th to be well over 27 million into the market. So that answers your question, and let me tell you why it’s not the right question. Not every lab can run every test. Not every test is completely self-contained. So the more important question is not how many tests are in the market, we’ve got them in the market, but it’s to make sure that every segment of the market has the kind of test that they can use.
<01:16:59>
Yes, they are happening. We promised one, or four million, there’s 10 million tests in the market now.
<01:17:10>
Yes, the masks in the strategic national stockpile-
<01:17:16>
Masks?
