<03:38>
The following, next week.
<03:41>
Up to four million tests available to the United States by the end of next week. We’ve got commercial labs are getting validated as we speak. By the end of this weekend, we’ll, as promised, have enough testing that CDC has produced for to test 75000 people is already out and then enough tests for another million tests to be done and that’s … Most of that is shipped. The last lots are here being validated by Dr. Monroe’s team as we speak.
<09:36>
Dr. Monroe, could you explain on the testing criteria how that compares? You’ve explained to the president, how they compared to China and international standards.
<10:34>
I understand even China had a geographic travel restriction on who they tested and they were the epicenter. Is that right Dr. Monroe?
<13:01>
And Mr. President, you wouldn’t have seen this. But actually today, Dr. Fauci published in the New England Journal of Medicine, a revised estimate of fatality counts very much consistent with what the president was saying, which is the WHO numbers are just a math problem. This many people died, this many were diagnosed. But if you then extrapolate to from the number of diagnosed to how many likely cases there are that never came to the doctor or hospital or got tested, Dr. Fauci’s paper in the New England Journal says he thinks it’s less than 1% which is I think word for word Mr. President, what you were saying.
<25:51>
Well, you got the CDC Director, who is doing it.
<25:54>
Why don’t we have Dr. Redfield talk to you? You may believe him. You won’t believe me. Why don’t you talk to Dr. Redfield? No.
<27:03>
About a million. Yeah, a million tests. So they shipped 700,000 already, the remaining lots are actually being tested here. Dr. Monroe has got them as of, I think, 10:30 this morning, and they have to do the quality control. And then, if they pass, they ship.
<31:45>
And if I… And please correct me, Doctors, if I’m wrong. If I understand correctly, South Korea is using a technology different than what we use in the United States in our public health labs, but that we do use in our commercial labs. The Labcorp, the Quests, the Roches, the Abbotts, and that’s exactly…
<32:03>
For the Quest’s, the Roche’s, the Abbott’s, and that’s exactly what Dr. Redfield was saying. If we’d been able to get up and running right away that… Am I saying that correctly, Dr. Monroe?
