<49:02>
Mr. President, Andy Barr from central Kentucky. Thanks for your leadership and for inviting us here today. I want to share with you three quick stories from my district that illustrate how effective your administration has been in responding to this public health emergency. These stories have not been reported by the press. So I want to direct these stories to the press because they need to know how effective you all have been in responding to us, and the American people. First is Dr Mark Doherty, an epidemiologist at Baptist Lexington. Largest private hospital in my district, a nationally known infectious disease expert. He comes to me in March, early in the pandemic. And he says, “We can do a convalescent plasma therapy.” He was one of the first epidemiologists in the country to want to do this. He went to your FDA, sir, and within four hours received approval to do convalescent plasma therapy.
<49:58>
Saved two lives on Sunday night. The approval was on Friday. Second, he comes to me and he says, “We can save personal protective equipment if we use telemedicine within the hospital. The problem is we need approval from the federal government to do that.” So we go to CMS to Seema Verma and we say, “We can do a Bluetooth stethoscope with an iPad and telemedicine, and FaceTime. We don’t have to send all of the healthcare workers into the negative pressure room. We can bring modern technology to the fight against COVID. We can protect healthcare workers and we can conserve critical personal protective equipment.” Within days, Seema Verma and her team at CMS responded favorably. That is a nationwide policy change that saves lives for healthcare workers, and conserves scarce personal protective equipment. And then the the next story is Steve Stone from Nicholasville, Kentucky works for Sagent Pharmaceuticals.
<50:58>
He comes to us and he says, “There is a critical shortage of the sedative propofol, which is used for COVID patients on ventilators. In New York, by the way, there was a shipment of a month worth of propofol that was held up by the government of Italy. So we got on the phone with Admiral Polowczyk from on your team, on Saturday morning. On Tuesday, he had talked to the state department and had the Italian government release to New York lifesaving propofol for intubated COVID patients in New York city, a months supply. And that was your administration and Admiral Polowczyk responding instantly to that request.
<51:38>
And then the third story is secretary Mnuchin and his team, and Mark Meadows. We had a small business owner who was not approved in the first round of PPP because he bought the business after February 15th. But this is a 35 year old business, a dozen employees, $60,000 a year jobs, a small business publication. We went to Mark Meadows, Secretary Mnuchin, his team, and within days they changed the guidelines, frequently asked questions, new guidelines. We saved 12 jobs in Lexington, Kentucky because of your decisive action. So Mr. President, thank you for the effective response to this pandemic in this crisis.
