<19:13>
Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you all for being here today and for welcoming us here and for your tremendous resilience that we’ve seen in this area. It’s said that crisis reveals character, and the COVID-19 national emergency has revealed the indomitable spirit of the people of Michigan and the men and women of the automobile industry. As the secretary of HUD, in conjunction with the president, I’ve directed our department to do everything within our power to help the American workers and their families remain in their homes, prevent this location and receive the critical services from the federal government. That includes allocating more than $12 billion under the Cares Act. The Cares Act is the single biggest economic relief package in American history. And as a member of the White House coronavirus task force, I’ve also had the privilege of working with some of our leaders, not only to respond to COVID-19, but to set America back on a path of reopening.
<20:25>
And as we’re seeing here at Ford today, the path to putting Americans back in business is already well underway, and we appreciate those efforts. As the president said, before this virus came along, we were humming along, making really records in terms of African American, Hispanic American, Asian American in unemployment women, it was the best employment numbers in 71 years. This is really a historic period, and what we need to recognize is that the economic infrastructure that created that economic renaissance is still there. We have to make sure that it’s not destroyed. And the way to do that obviously is to get people back to work again. That’s why the emphasis is on that, while at the same time, maintaining a strong emphasis on making sure that our people are healthy. And I think it’s become part of the American DNA now. We’ve learned about sanitizing everything, including our hands, being careful about the kinds of things that we touch that are being touched by multiple people, social distancing, wearing masks when we can’t social distance. You’ll notice that, at this table, we are social distancing.
<21:50>
Now President Trump and this administration have organized the largest national mobilization since World War II, providing PPE, providing ventilators. Detroit, which was once the most prosperous city in the nation because of its industrial infrastructure, now it’s showing what it can do in other portions of Michigan, what it can do in the manufacturing arena; real superstars. And we’ve also been renewing and expanding our focus on helping the communities that have been hit the hardest. Three and a half weeks ago, the president asked us, in the opportunity and revitalization committee, to focus on those individuals who are underserved, who have been hit the hardest in our economy. And we’re looking at it. We’re looking at their physical health, we’re also looking at their economic health, and we’re looking at the things really caused them to have more problems than the general population. Yes, there may be more hypertension, there may be more diabetes, there may be more obesity and asthma, but we also have to ask ourself, why are there more of those things? And we have to address those issues.
<23:16>
And that’s why all the different agencies and the government have combined to put together a program that will address these things on a sustainable basis. And we need to just remember that we have to bridge the gap because we have a very strong economy. We just have to bridge the gap until we get beyond this coronavirus. As the president mentioned, there’s tremendous progress being made in terms of therapeutics, in terms of vaccines. And if there is a second wave, and it’s not clear whether there will be, but if there is, believe me, we’re going to be ready for it. But we’re also going to be ready to recapture the spirit that created the most powerful and dynamic economy the world has ever known. It is just around the corner, and I believe that we’re going to make it. We’ve learned that in times of plenty, the incredible blessings of the Lord are with us. And when times are not so good, we also know that this too will pass. We will learn from this, and we will be stronger than ever.
