<09:31>
Thank you, Mr. President, for convening this session and for your commitment to protecting America’s elder citizens. We have made combating fraud against elders one of the department’s highest priorities. And that’s partly because we’ve seen a skyrocketing of fraud against elders as we’ve seen the conjunction of a growing older population coupled with new technology, particularly the internet, which has given fraudsters new opportunities for their schemes. And it’s a priority also because the elder population are particularly vulnerable because if they lose their savings, they don’t have much time to regain their footing. So it’s frequently a permanent loss for them. And so we have appointed a senior department official to be a full time coordinator across the entire department. This has been going on for the last couple of years. And we have in every single one of our 93 US Attorney’s Offices, a coordinator focused exclusively on rooting out fraud against elders.
<10:46>
Senior citizens lose billions of dollars each year. It averages for an individual $34,000 when they fall victim to a fraudulent scheme. And we have found that many of the perpetrators and in fact frequently the brains behind these schemes are actually outside the United States and part of transnational criminal organizations. There are three things I’d like to highlight today. The first, this month marks the one year anniversary of our Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force. When we started seeing the signs of the international organizations involved in this, we decided we had to run up the chain and try to go to the source of this fraud, as well as combating it at the local level. And we set up this group to do that. And over the past year, we’ve made a lot of progress in dismantling the infrastructure of these organizations, much of it involving the use of fraudulent robocalling.
<11:51>
In January, we brought landmark civil actions to shut down some of the largest carriers of fraudulent robocalls. In fact, we were able to shut down two of the five entities that are responsible for the robocalls in the United States. Just one of these, to give you an example of the scale of these companies, carried 720 million calls during a 23 day period, reaching every state in the union. After these cases, we saw a sharp decline in robocalls to consumers. So stopping this wave of robocalls by going after these international organizations is a key part of our strategy and we’re also gaining some success. At the same time, we’ve cracked down on the network of financial operatives that are frequently called money mules, who take money from seniors and send it back to their bosses overseas. The Postal Service has been instrumental in this success and Chief Postal Inspector Gary Barksdale is here to describe its efforts in more detail. But we’re proud of all the Strike Force has accomplished in the first year, but we are in a sense just getting started.
<13:05>
Second, I’ve asked the FBI and every US Attorney’s Office in the United States to prioritize elder fraud cases. And each year for the past three years, we’ve had a sweep across the nation targeting these fraudsters. This year, we indicted 400 fraudsters for causing over one billion in losses to elders. And we’re not letting up. We know that the fraudsters have gained new opportunities with COVID-19. And so we have also bearing down on COVID-19 fraud schemes. The third thing is, as the president mentioned, that we’ve set up a dedicated elder fraud hotline. It’s like a 911 call for elder fraud. It’s staffed seven days a week, and we help the victims when they call get the resources they need to deal with the fraud. One of the things we found is that frequently our senior citizens are afraid to report or hesitant to report fraud because they feel that they have failed and they’re embarrassed that they were taken advantage of. So everything we can do to encourage them to report is very important in getting after these criminals. And finally, as the president mentioned, we are making grants to The National White Collar Crime Center, which will enable that group to work with local police departments, local law enforcement to develop training and tools to combat elder fraud. So this is the day to day work that’s being done at the local level. I was once used as a lure shortly before the president appointed me as Attorney General. My official government image from the last time I was Attorney General was being used to attract elders to a website. If they sent money, then I would help them get grants. And I’d get these very pathetic calls into my office of people who’ve lost everything. And they said, “I feel so stupid. We’ve lost everything.” And they just didn’t know how to call. And I called the sheriff and he wasn’t sure what to do. These are frequently people living in rural areas. And so at the local level, it’s important to train local law enforcement as to how to respond to these kinds of sophisticated frauds that are coming in from these foreign organizations. So with that, Mr. President, once again, thanks for convening this session and all you do to keep America’s seniors safe.
<15:57>
Hey Gary, go ahead please.
<56:29>
Well, people who come to work in the government and have access to sensitive information generally sign an agreement that says that when they leave government, if they write something that draws on or might reflect some of the information they’ve had access to, they have to go through a clearance process before they can publish the book. And we don’t believe that Bolton went through that process. Hasn’t completed the process and therefore is in violation of that agreement.
<57:30>
Well there’s a number of things. The thing that is front and center right now is trying to get him to complete the process. Go through the process and make the necessary deletions of classified information.
<57:45>
No it hasn’t.
<57:48>
It’s being printed.
<57:52>
According to sources, it’s being printed. Hasn’t been released.
<57:59>
I said what we were doing. Was try to get them to complete the clearance process that’s required.
<58:12>
Well, he hasn’t completed the process.
<58:18>
This is unprecedented, really. I don’t know of any book that’s been published so quickly while the office holders are still in government and it’s about very current events and current leaders and current discussions and current policy issues, which many of which are inherently classified.
