<06:34>
Hi Mr. President. Thank you very much for having us today. I really appreciate you including the voice of small America, of rural America in this call. Southern Bank Corp, we are 1.5 billion dollar community development financial institution. Just one of those organizations that both <inaudible 00:06:51> and Mr. Solomon were just talking about. We serve the Arkansas <inaudible 00:06:55> Mr. President, this pay check protection program is a bold and aggressive program. It’s been exactly what’s intended. It’s putting Americans back to work. The place that we serve, that is desperately needed. We appreciate it very, very much. As the city of I, 60% of our leading activity must take place in low and moderate income communities. These communities are hurting. People are laid off and they all lack sufficient savings. Typically in an economic downturn, cuts and lower wealth communities are deeper and last longer than the wealthier communities. My bank and other CFIs across America have been working day and night since the program opened on Friday processing applications for both customers and non customers.
<07:39>
Southern Bank Corp has submitted over 16 million dollars in application SBA ourselves. We began cutting checks to businesses on Friday and we have hundreds more in the queue. On Saturday, we processed an application for a small business in North Eastern Arkansas with less than 2000 dollars was their loan amount. Now I know this may seem very, very small to many. But it was a lifeline for the employees of that small businesses. We have countless more of examples of small businesses in rural America that need this support. As you continue to push for additional support, let me thank you for your announcement today for pushing for additional support of 250 billion dollars for the PPP. Please as Mr. Solomon suggested, please consider a carve out for CDFIs that would include NBIs and those small community banks, because we have a proven track record of promoting economic stabilization, job preservation, and job creation in some of the hardest hit rural, urban, and inner American communities.
<08:36>
Finally, one question to administrator Carranza. On behalf of small colleges <inaudible 00:08:42> I must acknowledge <inaudible 00:08:46> who’s been very helpful in this issue. We’re looking to determine whether work study students count against the 500 limit of the PP program. Of course, that’s a financial aid program and those students are not <inaudible 00:08:58> but unless we get some guidance on that issue, we’re not exactly sure what to do. So in closing again, Mr. President, let me-
<09:03>
We need some guidance on that issue. We’re not exactly sure what to do. So in closing again, Mr. President, let me say thank you on behalf of America’s small business. This program has been a life line put in, and we appreciate you and the tremendous effort your administration put forth in such a small amount of time to get to this program launched and off the ground. Thank you. Thank you-
<09:19>
Thank you.
