<02:30>
Thank you Mr. President. Thank you for convening this meeting today. Thank you for what you and your administration are doing to support small businesses. I also want to thank the <inaudible 00:02:39> for generously spending time with pending of all small business graduates, particularly focusing on minorities of women owned businesses, which comprise 66% of all participants. In 2009, Goldman Sachs launched 10000 small businesses. Thousands and thousands of small businesses across the country <inaudible 00:02:59> businesses to create new jobs. At that time, we made the longest private sector investment in vocational colleges. We made the largest single commitment at the time to community development financial institutions. In the last ten years, we built the best in class education model that has reached 9700 businesses who collectively have 12 billion dollars in revenue, and have created over 175000 jobs in the United States.
<03:27>
In our network, our businesses single handedly build up their communities brick by brick. Business owners like Angelica Rivera <inaudible 00:03:34> New Orleans. Angelica helped New Orleans come back up after Katrina and now she’s part of the New Orleans <inaudible 00:03:44> story. She’s taking care of her parents, her children, her business. She’s applying for a PPP loan and working hard to keep her employees. She represents the very real struggle of with every small business America is facing. We know we need to act now to get capital to business owners like Angelica. Just last week we announced that Golden Sachs will work with small business administration and CFIs across the country. Today we’re proud to double our capital commitment to 500 million dollars and announce a total of 550 million in COVID-19 relief efforts. We’ve partnered with CDFIs and other mission based lenders for over a decade helping to deliver small businesses the capital and support they need to fuel their growth.
<04:40>
Businesses need the support urgently. We know the expertise and experience of CDFIs will be crucial. They provide the far reach that’s needed to rural areas, big cities, to underserved areas. Important, to the many businesses who don’t have a relationship with a traditional banking system. While we do not have direct small business customers as a firm, we are acutely aware of the power of small business and we worked hand in hand for over a decade with 10000 women and 10000 small businesses. In addition to loan capital, we’ll provide grant funding to enable CDFIs to hire necessary staff and set up additional operations to help as many businesses as possible. We’re working the SBA and administrator Carranza to swiftly mobilize this capital to those who need it most.
<05:22>
Before I close, we would respectfully request the policy modification, which I think also fits with your design Mr. President to increase the amount of money available, to make sure it does not run out before most of the community driven lenders can access and serve these underserved borrowers. We believe the treasury should work with the SBA to provide a designated <inaudible 00:05:40> for CDFIs and other mission driven lenders. We believe that’s going to curve the re guidance. Otherwise, the businesses served by CFDIs will continue to face an uphill battle in receiving the capital they so desperately and urgently need. We’ll be happy to work with the president on this if you and the secretary concur.
<05:55>
Thank you for having me today. I appreciate the opportunity to participate.
<06:28>
Thank you Mr. President. Thank you.
