<19:59>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
<20:02>
Just to start, I want to really thank all the Ministers of Health around the world who have been sending us their data despite the fight that they’re in themselves, particularly our European colleagues. They continue to send us primarily their mortality data, which is really very critical, because when you’re in the midst of this level of fight than many of the European countries are, following mortality data will give you the best insight right now on how the epidemic is proceeding in those countries because they really can’t be testing at the level to really understand the depth and breadth of their new cases.
<20:37>
In the mortality data that has been provided to us there has been no child under 15 that has succumbed to the virus in Europe. There was the one 14 year in China, so we still see that there is less severity in children, and so that should be reassuring to the moms and dads out there. To Generation Z and to my millennial colleagues who have been really at the forefront of many of these responses, less than one percent of all the mortality is less than 50, and so, this is, I think, also a very important point. That doesn’t mean that individuals won’t have severe disease. So still, 99% of all the mortality coming out of Europe in general is over 50 and preexisting conditions. The preexisting condition piece still holds in Italy with the majority of the mortality having three or more preexisting conditions. I think this is reassuring to all of us, but it doesn’t change the need to continue to protect the elderly, and in order to protect the elderly we all need to continue to do the President’s directives and guidance for the next week of the 15 day challenge.
<21:48>
Finally, I wanted to really close by thanking the laboratory personnel that had been at the front lines. 250,000 tests have been run in the last seven days. This happened because of these large commercial laboratories are doing round the clock runs, and remember all of them being, are being exposed to the virus in the same way from the swabs, yet tirelessly they have worked on and on to get those results available. They are still getting more tests than they can run per day. That’s because we are primarily expanded into the, what we call the Roshe high-throughput TriCore machine. Those results have been getting to the clients and we’ve asked them to prioritize hospitalized patients.
<22:32>
There was a breakthrough today, and I think you’ll see this from the FDA, and for all of those that you who are waiting for self swabbing options, those are going to be available at some time this week to be able to, individuals do their own tests. That said, remember these platforms are keeping up with those who need to be diagnosed in the hospitals and all those who come to the emergency room quite ill so that hospital beds can be freed up for those that don’t have COVID. So that will be critical, that if you don’t need a test and if it doesn’t change your clinical course, do not come in to be tested, and I think that mortality data that I gave you should be very reassuring to all of you.
<23:14>
Finally, to conclude, New York City. The New York Metro area of New Jersey, New York City and parts of Long Island have an attack rate close to one in a thousand. This is five times what the other areas are seeing. There, through the high-throughput lab investigations, we’re finding that 28% of the submitted specimens are positive from that area, where it’s less than 8% in the rest of the country. So to all of my friends and colleagues in New York, this is the group that needs to absolutely social distance and self isolate at this time. Clearly, the virus had been circulating there for a number of weeks to have this level of penetrance into the general community.
<39:24>
You’ve raised two important issues. One, I think you all know, a lot of our tests have had to go to hospitals at this time so that we can diagnose people who are at risk to give them options to get these new therapeutic options. None of these therapeutic options are available if you don’t know your diagnosis, so we’ve been very much focused on that. With adding Abbott, Thermo Fisher, Hologic and now Cepheid platforms… Cepheids that new platform that is point of care but slower so you’ve got to match the throughput, the need to what kind of equipment you have. Now that we have all those platforms moving simultaneously, we can go back to doing case finding and surveillance in the areas that have the most lower numbers as well as doing mitigation more aggressively in the places that have higher numbers.
<40:15>
We went out with a very blunt force. I mean we have to all be honest, we had to do that because we weren’t sure where the virus was and where it is going. I think over this week we’re concentrated on figuring out exactly where the virus is and making projections about where it’s going and the impact of our mitigation pieces. We learned this in tackling epidemics around the world, you have to focus the resources and the intervention and the structural prevention interventions in the areas where the virus is circulating. Otherwise, people never understand why you’re doing this and they don’t have any virus. It has to be very tailored geographically and it may have to also be very tailored by age group, really understanding who’s at the greatest risks and understanding how to protect them.
<41:10>
The only data that we all have, and I think you all know what it is, the two areas that have moved through their curve is China and South Korea. Those are the two countries that we’re learning from. Those were eight to 10 week curves. Each state in each hot spot in the United States is going to be its own curve because the seeds came in at different times. Washington state is on their curve. They’re about two weeks ahead of New York. And so each of these have to be done in a very granular way to really understand where we are. It’s the charge that the president has given us is to use all of our data analytics and all of our data inputs to really define those issues about where the virus is, where is it going, and what predictions we can make about where we are in that bell-shaped curve.
<43:59>
That’s why this was important. That’s why this recommendation to the American people was important because we have been saying that there is a level of asymptomatic or mild spread, and that’s why each person has to be responsible. Each person has to be responsible in the way that they decrease their interaction with others, the six feet, and you’re all very social distanced so thank you.
<44:27>
But also assuming that everyone that you’re interacting with could be positive. And that gets into the hand washing piece. And that gets into the other piece we talked about is surfaces. I think until we really figure out the respiratory transmission versus the surface transmission. And this hard surface transmission, not fabric, will be really critical because that is a way the virus could spread on subways, our metros, where people would be holding on to things that other people had recently held onto, so that’s the real question.
<45:17>
Following these guidelines, he wouldn’t have been infecting others because of the social distancing, washing your hands, doing everything that we talked about. We’ve talked about also how people make choices because of their jobs that they have to come in. You’ll notice I was not here over the weekend. I think this is the part that we really need to take personal responsibility for. Saturday, I had a little low grade fever-
<45:45>
… so actually probably a GI thing, but I’m meticulous. I’m a physician. I looked it up. I’m from Walter Reed, so I got a test late Saturday night and I’m negative. I stayed home another day just-
<46:05>
… Yeah, just to make sure. That’s how we protect one another. Unless everybody’s taking their temperature every day, we can’t say that he had no symptoms. These are the kinds of things that we have to do for one another. This is the personal responsibility that I’m talking about that we all have to practice.
<01:03:56>
That’s a very good question. What we do know, is now we can backtrack from people who get very seriously ill to when they probably got infected, versus when they were exposed. And so, when you start backing out each of those pieces, when you start seeing hospitalized patients, you know that the virus has probably been there for three to four weeks, substantially circulating within the population.
<01:04:21>
That’s what we’re looking for. Now, as all of our testing is improved and we want to really applaud the group who has worked on it. You know, if you look at the pandemic flu preparedness, all of this was built on a flu platform. It was never, ever thought that you’d have a simultaneous respiratory disease hitting at exactly the same time as your flu hits in the country. And so, when you are doing all of your flu surveillance, you could, had small cases of these pneumonias and flu-like illnesses characterized as a flu-like illness for the last four to six weeks.
<01:04:59>
And so, that’s really a caution to all of us. And so, when we get through all of this, we’ll be looking at each of the pandemic preparedness plans. A long way of saying, we know Washington state is a little bit ahead of New York because of the hospitalization records. What we will get to as a country with the amount of testing that will be available is being able to do what the president talking about simultaneously. Simultaneously doing containment contract tracing, at the same time you’re doing mitigation.
<01:05:32>
And I think right now, we’ve put everything into mitigation. Yet if we geographically get specific data by zip codes and counties, we’ll be able to approach this in a very laser focused way, making sure that what we’re doing in each of those areas is absolutely appropriate for where they are in their own little bell-shaped curve.
<01:06:03>
All, several of them have come to the FDA, I believe. Obviously, that’s something I am very interested in for two reasons. One, it will give us a retrospective on where these infections were, who was actually infected and how really asymptomatic versus mild versus all of that comes into the spectrum. Secondly, by people who have high titers or those antibodies, those can become our solution with plasmapheresis for those in need. And the and the making of hyperimmune globulin. Knowing who they are becomes really critical.
<01:06:40>
But I think we’re still a couple of weeks out, I have to go back and talk to the FDA where each of these are because this is what saved us with when you do flu swabs, when you do strep throat swabs, and now where you could do an HIV test.
<01:06:54>
These are the kinds of tests that we know will be critical in the future. I wanted to say one other thing, because you see a lot of numbers out there, about 70% of the population is going to get infected or 60% of the population based on those models. Understand that the way you get to that number is you do nothing. And it goes through three cycles. They’re talking about this cycle that we’re currently in, another cycle in 2021 and a third cycle in 2122, in order to get that level of population infected. And you know, we will have vaccines most likely by the 2122 season and we’re going to hopefully have therapeutics in the fall of the next season. The reason we’re so much focused on blunting the curve for this piece is if, if the virus comes back, we’ll have much more facility both for diagnosis, testing, monoclonal antibodies, treatments, and then the vaccine.
<01:08:07>
That’s what she was just asking about. These IgGs and IgM, both point of care, I can tell you it would be no problem making ELISA today, but then you’re drawing blood, you’re processing blood, you’re running plates. That’s what we did in the past. We really want a finger prick type assay where you can just put a fingerprint on and get your IgG and IgM, so that’s what we’re working on right now.
<01:08:35>
I can’t answer because I have to look at where each of the companies are that are in their development processes.
<01:08:44>
Well, there’s some that are developed now that they were using in Singapore, so we’re looking at those to see how those work.
<01:08:52>
We’re looking at those. But you know we’re very quality oriented because we want to make sure we don’t give people false negatives or false positives.
<01:09:46>
We’re learning a lot about social distancing and respiratory diseases.
<01:09:50>
And I think those are the discussions we have to have in the future. It was what you were talking about, changing our whole behavior patterns of what we touch and being conscious of that. I remember when I was worried Saturday morning, I was trying to think what all did I touch on Friday? Did I touch a door knob? Did I do this? Do I do that? Did I not wash my hands?
<01:10:11>
I mean, you go through this whole piece, did I touched my face by accident? I think this, this awareness that we all now have that we didn’t have before, where we would have pushed through that door or turn that doorknob because we were in such a hurry. Now, I think all of us think twice. I think all of you think.
<01:10:36>
I don’t know. You’ll have to look and see if we have a new respiratory piece. Certainly, this is the way we set up every clinic all around the world when we’re worried about TB and TB transmission.
<01:11:09>
The president and vice president have asked us to look at every single scenario in every single country, because the more data we have, the more our decisions can be completely data informed and really understanding what impact that has. We’re interested right now, I mean, Italy obviously waited until about March 7th. The virus had been circulating for almost four weeks before actually going into that methodology, but for the first time it looks like their number, their mortality rates are starting to decline, which would be an illustration that things that they did two and three weeks ago may actually have an impact.
<01:11:50>
Those are the kinds of data we’re looking at very carefully, as well as very careful data within the United States of exactly where the virus is? What’s the attack rate? Has it moved out of its more confined geography? And really looking at each of those pieces of information. It’s a lot of data to go through and that-
<01:12:12>
Well, I think if you remember just a week ago, Britain had a very different approach, so everybody is adapting to their data. I haven’t looked at the data that informed that decision, so I can’t really comment on how they got to that decision there or in Germany.
<01:12:38>
What the president has asked us to do is to assemble all the data and get us, give him our best medical recommendation based on all the data. That’s what he’s asked us to do and so that’s what we’ll be doing this week. We were going to have to do it this week anyway-
<01:12:54>
Because we had to make a decision come Monday about the 15 days to reduce social spread. This is consistent with our mandate to really use every piece of information that we can in order to give the president our opinion that’s backed up by data, not our perception, but our opinion that’s backed up by data.
<01:13:20>
Well, we’re pulling all of the data pieces in now and that’s really critical. I don’t like to, I will never speculate on data. I will have to see the data in order to really understand it.
<01:13:49>
The mortality rate is driven almost exclusively as we have talked about by people with pre-existing conditions and older. That has become from the very beginning, that was our emphasis. When we started two or three weeks ago talking with one another, our focus has been on how do we protect those with pre-existing conditions and the elderly? And I think these steps were about protecting with pre-existing conditions. The whole key to changing the mortality rates is not just the hospital care, but preventing them from going into the hospital to begin with because you don’t need, want them to be infected.
<01:14:34>
Yes.
<01:14:37>
Well, you know what the estimate in Wuhan was originally, it was over 3%. When they look outside of Wuhan, it was about 0.7%. It depends very much. In South Korea, it was about 0.7-0.8%. But I don’t want, that’s like a tyranny of averages and I, you know, that’s not having, that’s probably missing 50-60% of the data because no one was testing asymptomatics. Remember?
<01:15:05>
In every country you had to be symptomatic to get a test. We’re making case fatality rates when we’re missing a significant part of the data. If anything, it will go lower. But I don’t want people, I don’t… That should not be reassuring because the death rates escalate with age and pre-existing conditions.
<01:15:28>
I really want to be clear that although it may be very low, if you’re under 40, or very low if you’re under 50, and very low if you’re under 70. There is an inflection curve, there are people, the average age of the person who’s dying in Italy is in the mid-eighties, so there is really a significant issue in our older generation that we feel strongly about protecting.
<01:16:28>
Right.
<01:17:06>
But that’s why your question about the antibody test is so critical because that will give us really a much better baseline to really understand.
<01:20:36>
Actually, it should reinforce it because if people know that we’re considering and trying to understand the impact of the good work that they have done, I think it reinforces them to do good work for the next whatever it is days, weeks in the future. Because it says to them, we’re looking very carefully of the impact that the work that you did, the selflessness that you brought to this, the ability to stay home with your fabulous children, your ability to social distance, the ability to give up on going to restaurants and just having takeout.
<01:21:10>
All of those sacrifices, the ability of your protecting our elder generation, the greatest generation and making sure they’re safe in nursing homes, but not seeing them. All of us have made sacrifices. I haven’t seen my grandchildren in three weeks. I know other people are like that, that they have really made those personal sacrifices. What we’re asking every American to do is to make those personal sacrifices for these next week and now so that we can evaluate the impact of that sacrifice. I think if anything, it strengthens the willpower to say, “Yes, I can do this.”
