<01:27:12>
Great. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just to pick up on some of the questions that you had earlier, so the issues that we discussed with the modeling yesterday was to ensure that the models were adjusted for the great work that every citizen is making in doing the mitigation efforts and to see if that was reflected in the requests specifically for ventilators.
<01:27:36>
So we wanted to make sure that, with a limited number of ventilators and the issues that we saw in Detroit and Dearborn, in Cook County, and now in New Orleans, that we were balancing and projecting correctly, based on both what the models had predicted and then whether they were adjusted for the incredible mitigation work ongoing in New York City.
<01:27:59>
We understand that this week and next week will not reflect that mitigation, whether it’s New Orleans or whether it’s New York and the New York metro area. We know that the hospital admissions that we are seeing this week and next week will be infections that occurred before the mitigation started, but we wanted to make sure, going forward, that the needs reflected that.
<01:28:23>
That was what was adjusted in the Ferguson model for the UK, and I know you’re following that very carefully. They believe strongly that the mitigation methods that were put into place that informed our mitigation methods, we all were working off of that same model, and I want to make it clear that those models, those flu models have been incredibly helpful to really predict what would layering of these different mitigation efforts, from social distancing to staying home if you’re sick, the staying in that household, the quarantine everybody in the household if anyone is positive.
<01:28:57>
Now, there are other countries that took different approaches, and I want to be clear, because we did hear from both China and South Korea. But it’s always important that you adopt and adapt and adapt it to your community and the reality of your country. We do this around the world. You can’t ever just take an off-the-shelf approach and then put it into action in your community. You have to understand your communities.
<01:29:23>
So, although both China and South Korea removed people who were positive from their households and segregated them away from their families, we did not think that our Americans would adopt and adapt to that situation. So that’s why, in our guidelines, we asked people, if there is a family member, to try to self-isolate in the household so that that person is still there in the household.
<01:29:48>
So I just wanted to be clear that, yes, we all heard about what China and South Korea did. As much as we could, we adapted them to the American situation, as the UK has done also. We just wanted to make and really ensure that all of the requests for the stockpile reflected the great work that the American citizens were doing in each of these areas to ensure health.
<01:30:15>
Then, finally, there was the question about requiring quarantine. I want to make sure that everyone understood when we talked about New York residents who had gone to other places, it was for them to voluntarily self-isolate and take care of themselves, because we felt like they could be exposed, and we really wanted to alert them that the rates in New York City were high and were increasing and that they were probably exposed during some of the most exposure time period before the mitigation efforts went in.
<01:30:46>
So this was really about the health of our New York citizens that then chose to go to other places, both to protect themselves and to protect others. So, hopefully, that’s clear to everyone about those issues. We continue to look at the data every day. We really want to applaud the laboratory testing that is helping us. It will help us very much when we can get full surveillance up in many of our communities and surveillance around those most vulnerable, particularly in nursing homes and long-term care facilities, so that we can more rapidly test both the workers and the occupants in those communities. Thank you.
<01:32:47>
Yeah. No, thank you. I’ve learned, and as Tony has described, we’ve learned that when a community is educated, we all do better together, and so it’s important to get that information out when we start talking about where the virus is, what the percent positives are, and really inform communities so that they can make decisions, so that people can take protective measures for themselves and for their families.
<01:33:12>
I find that it’s important, yes, for us to have the data, but it’s equally important for the state and local governments, as well as the communities. We are still, because we worked very hard to get it into the first bill, but it was changed to state and local labs, and, obviously, 95% of all the tests are being done in the commercial labs. So in this recent bill that was just approved, it is mandated that all commercial labs need to report. So you’ll have that data when we get the data comprehensively from all the commercial labs. Well, it was passed today, so hopefully we’ll expect it tomorrow.
<01:34:13>
So I’m glad you asked, because the important thing about testing, it only tells you if you’re positive or negative that day. You could become positive the next day. So testing should be used intentionally as a surveillance tool or a diagnostic tool, and I think what we are going to work on over the weekend is to weave together both a testing strategy for surveillance, which you have brought up in that key point, while maintaining a strong testing for diagnosis, because our first obligation is still to ensure that patients get diagnosed, both so that the personal protective equipment for those who are negative doesn’t have to be utilized, but also to give those patients the opportunity to have optimal care. I think Dr. Fauchi mentioned this a few minutes ago. The things we have learned over the last just three months was a lot of information about how best to ventilate patients. I think that has been shared across communities and across clinicians around the globe. We’d never previously had an experience where a lot of people had to be ventilated prone.
<01:35:23>
So this kind of information that has been shared has been critical to improve the survival of the patients that we have in the United States of America, and we really want to applaud the countries who have been giving all of us that information and sharing it across the clinical network.
