<34:24>
Yeah, so I think all of you, many of you have done the analysis of the same models that we utilized. And if you do the models of the models, you end up with that range. At the same time, we’ve carefully looked at Italy and Spain. And we are doing much better in many cases than several other countries. And we’re trying to understand that. We believe that our healthcare delivery system in the United States is quite extraordinary. I know many of you are watching the Act Now model, and the IMHE model. And they have consistently decreased the number, the mortality, from over almost 90,000 or 86,000, down to 81,000, and now down to 61,000.
<35:10>
That is modeled on what America is doing. That’s what’s happening. And I think what has been so remarkable, I think, to those of us who have been in the science fields for so long is how important behavioral change is, and how amazing Americans are in adapting to and following through on these behavioral changes. And that’s what’s changing the rate of new cases, and that’s what will change the mortality going forward. Because now we’re in to the time period of full mitigation that should be reflected within the coming weeks of decreasing mortality.
<35:48>
I mean that’s what we really hope to see. We are impressed by the American people. And I think models are models. I’ve always worked on validating. I spent my life validating models all over the world and that’s why we do surveys and surveillance, and we make sure that what we think is right. I think this will change how people look at respiratory diseases, because it will change what is possible when the globe, and particularly the American people, do this level of mitigation. And I think as I talked about yesterday, we are still in awe really of the American people’s strength in this and following through.
<01:10:32>
Thank you Mr vice president. I just want to start where the vice president left off. I come out of the services, army, when we always talk about honoring the fallen and I think for every American, what we can do now to honor the fallen that have fallen and given that really their deaths to this horrible disease. To the healthcare workers that are the front lines trying to save every single one, to honor them and to honor our elders and the individuals that we know are at the greatest risk for bad outcomes. We all need to continue to do our work. Yes, the number of cases is stabilizing, but I do want to go through those numbers with you because we talk about these as micro epidemics in metro areas and in rural areas. So, in the New York metro area, which includes obviously Northern New Jersey, Connecticut and Rhode Island, there is still 11,000 new cases per day and their positivity rate on their testing is still in the 40%+ range.
<01:11:37>
So, there is still a significant amount of disease there and everyone needs to continue to follow the guidelines. New Orleans metro area, 800 new cases per day, but a zero positivity rate on their testing of 28%. Detroit Metro area, 1400 cases per day, 26% positivity. Chicago, 1200 cases per day and 18%. Boston, 18% positivity, 1100 cases per day. Denver has fallen to 180 cases per day, but still has 0% positivity in they’re testing. California and Washington have stayed stable at about Seattle, 350 cases per day. On the LA metro area, 800 cases per day, but their test positive rates are remaining in the 9% range. And so, this really gives us some idea of what it takes. They have been continuously mitigating. Imagine what we’re talking about, new York going from 40+ percent, zero positivity and 11,000 cases a day, down to the LA metro area of 800 cases per day and 9%. So, this is what when the president talks about reaching the top and coming down, those are the kinds of things we need to see and the only way we will see them is if every American continues to follow the guidance.
<01:13:02>
Now, in the Philadelphia metro area where I come from, it’s 1400 cases per day. This of course includes Camden, the counties around, the Philadelphia Metro and Wilmington. And in the Baltimore and the Washington DC area, 15% zero positivity and 500 cases per day and 200 cases per day in Baltimore. This is how we’re looking at it, County by County, metro by Metro, rural region by rural region to make sure we don’t miss anything. And we’re triangulating testing data with the attack rates, with the hospitalization, with the number of cases, and really creating a mosaic of who needs what when to ensure that every American is served well. I had a great call today with a group of pediatricians, the head of the American Academy of Pediatrics and with the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Behind the scenes and working every day are the pediatricians fielding those phone calls from every concerned mother and of course grandmothers like myself, and protecting our children every day to ensure that they have access to the medical care that they need while this is happening.
<01:14:15>
And to every pregnant woman out there, I was very reassured hearing from the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. They have put amazing things in place to protect every pregnant woman. They have been social distancing in their offices. They have increased all of the disinfecting. They have lengthened the time between clients. To every pregnant woman, don’t miss your appointments. If your OB thinks you need to be there, you should go and please know that on the labor and delivery wards, they are doing everything to protect you and their babies. They are committed to you. They are absolutely committed to you having a good experience. Make sure if your physician believes you should be in the hospital for your delivery, make sure you’re following their guidance. We don’t want any pregnant women to suffer a bad outcome during this time. So again, I just want to conclude by thanking the American people and recognizing the number of people we’re losing per day is serious to all of us and it could be so much worse, but our frontline healthcare providers and the way they’re talking to each other about how to improve care for every individual that they serve.
<01:15:29>
You see them on the TV, you see them in the emergency room, you see what they’re up against. This is how we can honor them is to make sure we continue to, as Dr Fauci always says, put your foot on the gas and make sure that we continue to strongly mitigate and really protect those with preexisting conditions. And finally, those preexisting conditions we know now include asthma. So, asthma, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, diabetes. On any of these conditions, renal disease. No matter what age, please make sure you’re following the guidelines to protect those individuals in your household. We know they’re more susceptible to a worse outcome. We don’t think that anyone’s more susceptible to getting infected. I want to make sure that everyone understands, everybody is susceptible to getting infected. This virus is very transmittable as we well know, but we need to protect those that need our protection the most. So, thank you all for what you’re doing to get the message out, to ensure that we continue to protect each other in this very difficult time.
<01:32:23>
I can tell you within that decision complex is not just the absolute number of cases, it’s the hospital capacity and what each of those hospitals have. So remember I think a couple of days ago we talked about how the states are sending the information about ICU beds, hospital beds, ventilator needs. So different States have different… Which I don’t think any of us probably knew before this, but there are some states that have lots of ventilators and there’s other states that proportion to their population, or by their cases of COVID, have less. I’m sure Denver and Colorado fit into that model where there were hospitals that had less than ventilators proportionally and were needed for the cases that were seeing. That’s the kind of analysis so every state that a few cases more than Colorado have all received ventilators except for I think Texas and that’s just because they are just starting.
<01:33:21>
Remember we started… Colorado was one early on the curve, so they have many more people have moved through that progress and are in need of ventilators. Texas is very early in their curve in both Dallas and Houston so that’s what I was talking about. Each of these are a micro curve that we have to follow independently or we would may be making general decisions rather than specific decisions by geography.
<01:36:17>
Yeah, we’ve been hearing the converse to that. We’ve been hearing both sides of that. I think we’ve made it very clear, I think every time I’ve been up here about the comorbidities and so most of the people… We talked about the Italy data. The majority of the Italians who succumbed to this had three or more comorbidities. This has been known from the beginning so those individuals will have an underlying condition, but that underlying condition did not because their acute death when it’s related to a COVID infection. In fact, it’s the opposite. Having an underlying condition and getting this virus we know is particularly damaging to those individuals. We don’t know all the pathophysiology. I wish we did right now. We see a lot of vasculitis where Tony and I came from. Tony, actually… Dr Fauci started in the vasculitis in Wagner’s.
<01:37:21>
I mean these are things we have studied for a long time. We are trying to understand the pathophysiology, but what we can tell you at this moment, if you have asthma, if you have renal disease, if you have diabetes, if you have hypertension, these are preexisting conditions that puts you at a greater risk to having a worse outcome.
<01:38:34>
I have a call with them at 8:00 PM tonight, every single one of those 120 laboratories, I think 87 of the laboratory directors have confirmed that call. It has to do with a machine called an Abbott M2000. It’s a very high <inaudible 01:38:49> machine. We have a million tests out there. I made a big push and Abbott was extraordinary about getting those out to the labs. I mean, this is not sitting in a warehouse. These are physically in these laboratories sitting there right now.
<01:39:04>
They’re not running. So we’ve only run 88,000 tests in three weeks off of those machines with a million test kits. So as someone who has worked in a lot of laboratories, to have a machine that is needed because we could have screened every healthcare worker, these machines are every place in the country, so they could have screened in these last three weeks, 100% of the healthcare workers across the country that needed these tests to be done, and they’re of high throughput. So I have a call with them at 8:00 to really talk about-
<01:39:42>
I asked the Vice President to give me a chance to talk to my colleagues first, but we have a call with the CEOs of those hospitals tomorrow.
