<31:13>
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. So you know, we continue to look at data every single day. There are concerning reports coming out of France and Italy about some young people getting seriously ill and very seriously ill in the ICUs. We think part of this may be that people heeded the early data coming out of China and coming out of South Korea about the elderly or those with preexisting medical conditions were at particular risk.
<31:48>
It may have been that the millennial generation, our largest generation, our future generation that will carry us through for the next multiple decades, there may be disproportional number of infections among that group. And so, even if it’s a rare occurrence, it may be seen more frequently in that group and be evident now. So we’re looking at that information very carefully.
<32:14>
We have not seen any significant mortality in the children, but we are concerned about the early reports coming out of Italy and France.
<32:25>
So again, I’m going to call on that generation that’s part of that group that brought us innovation, particularly throughout all of their ability to look around corners and skip through games. I always went level by level. I didn’t realize that you could go from level three to level seven. That’s what they’ve taught us. They look for things that we don’t see. We need them to be healthy.
<32:49>
So again, I’m not only calling on you to adheed what’s in the guidance, but to really ensure that each and every one of you are protecting each other. And so, we cannot have these large gatherings that continue to occur throughout the country for people who are off work to then be socializing in large groups and spreading the virus. You have the potential then to spread it to someone who does have a condition that none of us knew about and cause them to have a disastrous outcome.
<33:17>
Finally, on the testing piece and what we’re learning. I know you know last week and bringing the private sector, I think what has been exciting to me over the last two and a half weeks is to see this administration harness the full capacity of the private sector, understanding that a lot of our solutions that we need to confront this virus rely on the private sector. Bringing the private sector commercial labs was critical into this process. We are now beginning to see that they have spread out in a prioritized way because we asked them to prioritize the regions that were mostly affected. And so, you still may have difficulty getting tests in areas that do not have significant cases. We’ve had them prioritize the regions where we need diagnosis and their diagnostic percent.
<34:03>
Remember, I told you South Korea was under 4%, so 96% of people were negative. The last report we’ve seen from the laboratories have about a seven plus percent positivity rate. Still, 93 plus percent or 92% are negative. But I think that’s encouraging to me personally that we’re prioritizing appropriately to those areas that have the greatest need.
<34:28>
Today and yesterday, Thermo Fisher pushed out most of their laboratory testing capacity and that will dramatically increase the app platform and the ability to run additional tests in addition to Roche.
<34:43>
So I appreciate everybody’s attention to these numbers. I’m excited that we’ve prioritized where the need was the greatest. But again, please follow the guidance and please make sure in every report that you’re putting out that you’re talking about the presidential guidance to actually stop the spread of this virus. Thank you.
<54:04>
So that’s a very critical question, and thank you for asking it. So the test kits that we put out last week through the rapid movement of that meeting that president Trump called less than two weeks ago, that has resulted in bringing our private sector to the table, because the tests and the platform that was out there could only run between four and 12 tests per platform per day. We’ve now moved into platforms that can run basically tens of thousands of tests per day. So yeah, the reason I’m grateful for your question, because it allows me to point out that a course then there was backlog. There were individuals who had been tested who hadn’t had their specimen run because of the slow throughput. It’s now in a high speed platform. So we will see the number of people diagnosed dramatically increase the next four to five days.
<55:01>
I know some of you will use that to raise an alarm that we are worse than Italy because of our slope of our curve. To every American out there, it will be five to six days worth of tests being run in 24 to 48 hours. So our curves will not be stable until sometime next week. The reason I talked about Thermofisher yesterday is because their platform is in 2, 000 laboratories. They’re the ones that are putting out the million tests this week that will solve the issue that Atlanta and others have brought up. I wanted to be clear, we prioritize the areas. We do County by County analysis based on those analyses, on what counties had more than 50 cases, we prioritize the test kits we put out, the 400,000. And that’s why we’re seeing a 7% plus positivity rate. We’ll be able to expand that platform and reprioritize based on the accessibility of the other kits.
<01:00:17>
So two things. We look at data all the time, and I know you’re looking at the China and South Korea data. And when you look at China and South Korea data and you look what China and South Korea did, you could see that their curves are not only blunted outside of Wuhan, so the Chinese areas outside of Wuhan blunted curve and South Korea blunted curve. If you look at their curve today, they’re already on the far end of their epidemic curve. Of course, none of those countries are fully back to work. And so that’s what we worry about, too.
<01:00:52>
Secondly, there was a series of scientific articles published, and I know you’ve seen them, too, about surface contamination. I think none of us really understood the level of surface piece. So we’re still working out how much is it by human-human transmission and how much is it by surface. And this is why those fundamental guidelines were put out that that says, “Don’t expose yourself to surfaces outside the home.”
<01:01:18>
Basically, what those guidelines are is don’t expose yourself to excess number of persons who could be asymptomatic and infected and then the person to person contact, and don’t expose yourself to surfaces that could have had the virus on it, for which on hard surfaces, I know we had the cardboard issue about shipping, hard surfaces, not shown in fabric as much or in cardboard, but hard surface transmission. These are issues that we haven’t had to deal with before with the level of respiratory infections, and that’s why we have this concern, and that’s why the president put out the guidelines. And so it’s to cover both of those pieces. That’s all new science, all new models. I think many of you have the imperial study available and looked at the impact of those. That’s the first time those have been modeled as a comprehensive approach to mitigating an epidemic.
<01:09:25>
I think we are exploring every one of those issues. The president asked for a critical briefing on that today. He opened with that. It is more than that single drug. There are other drugs that individuals are looking at. Just to go back to what we talked about many times, there is things that look really good in cell culture against the virus that may look good in small animals, and then don’t have an impact in humans. And so those are the pieces that we’re looking at very carefully. Of course, there’s always anecdotal reports, and we’re trying to figure out how many anecdotals reports equal real scientific breakthroughs.
<01:10:09>
All we can do is look at the past to inform the future. We know what SARS looked like. We also know, and I just want to put this out, I know you can get it online, look at the curve in China and look at the curve in South Korea. Those curves were accomplished in still the winter season. And so we’re trying to understand what those relationships are. We’re very interested in the curves in Italy because of their different approach and we’re following every single country’s curves. And so all we can do is look at prior Coronavirus and prior respiratory infection, RNA viruses. These are RNA viruses. When you look at flu in the Northern hemisphere, when you look at parainfluenza and some of the other cold viruses, and if you look at SARS, that’s the way the peak normally occurs, but that is a November to April. We all started later. And so you’re asking me to predict based on a later start, and that’s what we’re trying to really look at china and South Korea to really inform that.
<01:13:12>
So very early on in each one of these cases, if you look at all of the countries to date, the mortality is higher at the beginning because you’re diagnosing the sickest, the ones who came in quite ill. And I just want to remind the American public that the risk for serious illness in the majority of Americans are low, but that doesn’t mean that you can’t transmit it to one of those higher risk groups. And that’s why we’re asking for all Americans to take responsibility. You’re seeing mortality or deaths today from infections that occurred two to three weeks ago in general. The other thing that you’re seeing is the dramatic and very difficult impact of this virus in nursing homes. And that’s why very early on, the president and vice president had us come out, and CMS put those very strict rules in place, and everybody thought we were being too strict in keeping loved ones away from their family in nursing homes. If we’re going to solve this with a lower death rate, we have to protect the elderly because of their percent is much higher in mortality than any other age group.
