<26:27>
I think you’re referring to the model that looks at mortality.
<26:32>
And the mortality is very variable. That model has gone from 60,000 now to 134,000. Obviously we track mortality very closely. You can see the rate of new hospitalizations has gone dramatically down, and so we’re following that and mortality very closely. And so we all know about models and that’s why we follow the data metro by metro, and we have represented here New Orleans that has moved through a very large peak and has come down the other side, same with Detroit. We continue to watch Chicago very carefully. We know that both Boston and Philadelphia are still working through a very difficult time.
<27:16>
The country has moved as individuals, and what we are so proud about is how much the governors are using testing in a focused way. So they’re not just diagnosing the individuals that have come to the hospital with symptoms, they’re proactively going out and testing in nursing homes and prisons and testing everybody when they see one case in a meat packing plant. And this is really allowing us insight, and we really appreciate the media calling out the asymptomatic spread because we’ve been talking about it for two months, but now finally it’s really getting picked up that there is asymptomatic spread, and that’s why governors using that strategic testing to ensure that the most vulnerable, those in disadvantaged areas of the cities and multigenerational households, those in group housing, those in nursing homes, those in prisons are really, they’re aggressively doing what we call surveillance and surveillance testing and I think we’ve just been very proud to watch the governors pick up on the federal guidelines that called that out as a very key point.
<28:23>
Well again, it’s a county-by-county, state-by-state decision and that’s how we’re collecting data, and we’re hoping and we’re asking all of the states to have a very, very great data system so that every community member can see what’s happening in their community, both of hospitalizations and testing, and unfortunately any mortality so these decisions can be continuously updated. And we’re seeing that, we’re seeing much better sites and the state and county level to really inform the public in a very clear way.
