<08:51>
Well thank you Mr. President. It’s unfortunate what you had to live for the last four years, from your campaign to your presidency and I appreciate your kind words and for all the folks in here who have worked so hard on getting to the bottom of the Russia hoax situation.
<09:08>
Let me just talk a little bit about the situation our country’s in now. I know you’re well aware, we’ve had six, seven weeks here of keeping people inside their homes. We’ve learned a lot about this virus. There’s still a lot more we need to learn. We need to learn what our friends over in Asia were doing at the time that this virus was taking off and the issues with the World Health Organization. And I believe with your new pick, with John Ratcliffe, member of the house intelligence committee, member from Texas, he’s going to do a great job getting to the bottom of this and I think leading the intelligence agencies through what have been some pretty dark times over the last few years.
<10:29>
Mr. President, what we expect and the American people expect, is transparency from our law enforcement agencies. I think we’re well on our way to getting that.
<10:39>
I want to also thank you for bringing us back here to show the American people that we can be here and do our work. The Democrats are cowering at home right now and it makes no sense, because we’ve learned so much. I can understand for the first few weeks, but we’re learning. We have ventilators. We’re learning new ways how to treat this virus. As you know, you’ve been in my district, it’s the San Joaquin Valley of California, heavy agricultural area, my folks have been going to work. My folks have been going to work, because they have to feed this country along with a lot of the folks around here. And if we expect the guys that are cutting meat or working at a grocery store, working in these packing plants, if we expect them to go to work, we ought to go to work as members of Congress. I’ll just leave it at that.
<12:38>
The smelt, Delta smelt.
<12:54>
Yeah. That and salmon, yes. The farmers are very thankful for recognizing the important work that you’ve done, not only in San Joaquin Valley, but all over the country. And I’ll just say that’s why, they’re out working and I think we should be working. I’m glad you brought us here.
<14:35>
Well, I know during this time of crisis, we need to work with the governor and I thank you for working with our governor, who is obviously not a supporter of yours. But there is a serious issue there, that the governor needs to recognize that we have a water crisis in our state, that you’ve recognized and he needs to drop the lawsuits that he’s brought and work with us.
<16:15>
Thank you, sir.
<01:26:28>
Well, you have to remember that this is a 30-some-year veteran of our military who headed the Defense Intelligence Agency. It would be preposterous to think that he was a Russian agent and everybody in the press knew this. They had early versions of the dossier. They knew the Democrats were pushing the dossier. And the fact that someone would even ask this question about General Flynn who was clearly exonerated on January 4th before you were even sworn in to office. We know that from the FBI agents who were reviewing the case. I’m not even sure it was properly predicated to review General Flynn in the first place. There’s a lot of people in this town, in the swamp, that all of these people in the media know that work on behalf of foreign agents and aren’t registered. And General Flynn, who’s a 30-year war veteran, the way that he’s been treated, the way his family has been treated, the way that he’s lost his livelihood, he lost his house… And I think the American people owe him a debt of gratitude, and this government owes him and his family an apology.
