<04:25>
Okay. Thank you very much everybody. Well, these people have been working very, very hard today. I’ll tell you for a long time they’d been working, but before I begin, I want to express our nation’s well wishes to Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he wages his own personal fight with the virus. All Americans are praying for him. He is a friend of mine. He’s a great gentleman and a great leader and he’s a, as you know, he was brought to the hospital today, but I’m hopeful and sure that he’s going to be fine. He’s strong man, strong person. Today every patriotic American heart beats in solidarity with the incredible people of New York and New Jersey. They’ve really become a very hot zone, but some very good things are happening in New York. The first time where the deaths were less from the previous day. That’s the first drop so far, so maybe that’s a good sign.
<05:23>
It could be and the hospital levels are starting to perhaps decrease. It’s been very short but perhaps decreased, so we wish Governor Cuomo and all of the people in New York, great and New Jersey governor is doing a great job. He’s doing a great job in New Jersey. They got hit very hard. I just want to say that the full power of the American government and American enterprises, it really is, this is an all out military operation that we’ve waged and especially over the last number of weeks, 50 states and territories have now been approved for major disaster declarations, which is very unusual thanks to the army Corps of engineers. New York city’s Javits Center is now one of the largest hospitals in the United States. It’s designated for treatment of the virus patients and staffed by hundreds of federal medical personnel deployed from two army hospital units and they’re doing a great job.
<06:28>
This was something that we didn’t expect to do, but they needed help in New York and we sent federal troops, not only troops, we also sent a lot of very talented doctors, nurses, first responders. People are now running Javits. Also, as you know, the USNS Comfort, which is in New York, has been a lot of publicity about that coming in and all that was not supposed to be for the virus at all under any circumstances, but it looks like more and more we’re going to be using it for that. So we’ll see. That was supposed to be for people having other medical problems, but it’s very interesting because there are virtually no cars on the road, no motorcycles on the road. No anything on the road, things that would normally be taken care of, we don’t see anymore. So we haven’t seen that in a long time. It’s a perhaps a positive, but the ship is ready and if it has to, if we need it, if we need it for the virus, we will be using it for that. They’d prefer not for obvious reasons, but if for any reason they need it, it’s ready, willing and able.
<07:37>
We have the best doctors, the best military leaders, and the best logistics professionals anywhere in the world, and we’re orchestrating a massive federal response unlike anything our country has ever seen or done. We’ve never done anything like this. And more and more we’re using our medical people because of the fact that jurisdiction states in particular, New York, New Jersey to Connecticut area, Long Island now has become a hotspot part of New York, sending a lot of things, a lot of supplies, and now we’re sending personnel where it’s needed, military personnel. As of Tuesday we’ll have deployed over 3,000 military and public health professionals to New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and other parts of our country. 3,000 and that number is going up and we hope we’re seeing a leveling off in the hottest spots of them all. So we’ll see. You’ll be seeing that over the next few days. Let’s see what happens. But we’re prepared.
<08:37>
In the last seven days, FEMA has airlifted critical supplies and protective equipment from every corner of our earth, they’re coming from all over the planet, including from within the United States where the equipment isn’t as necessary. Since last Sunday, cargo planes have delivered almost, listen to this, 300 million gloves, almost eight million masks and three million gowns and many more fully loaded cargo. Planes are right now on the way three big ones landed today and these supplies are being distributed directly to the hospitals and healthcare providers all across the nation so that a massive amount of material that we’re getting in is being delivered all over the country. Tomorrow we’ll deliver an additional 600,000 N95 masks to New York City to take care of the needs of the public hospital system.
<09:34>
It was at request of Mayor De Blasio. We’ve been working great with Mayor De Blasio, getting them a lot of stuff. He’s working very hard, I can tell you that. And we’re working really very hard with New York City and with New York state and at the request of Congressman Lee Zeldin out in Long Island. We will also be delivering another 200,000 N95 masks to Suffolk County where they need it very badly, so we’re getting that out in an emergency basis. Should be there tomorrow. We’ll also be deploying millions of N95 masks to other locations that Admiral Balochik will detail shortly. The admiral will be up in just a couple of minutes. Over the last 24 hours, FEMA has delivered an additional 500 ventilators to New Jersey, 500. And again, the governor has been very thankful. We’re working very hard with New Jersey including building hospitals. We’ve also sent an additional 200 ventilators to Louisiana definite hotspot, 300 to Michigan working very well, I think with the governor.
<10:42>
Amazingly 600 will be going or have gone to Illinois and I mean there’s a governor, I hear him complaining all the time, Pritzker. I hear him. He’s always complaining and yet I just said, give me a list of a couple of the things we’ve done in Illinois and we’re building a 2,500 bed hospital in McCormick Place. That’s the big convention center in Chicago and we’re helping to staff it and probably will end up staffing it because he’s not able to do what you’re supposed to be able to do as a governor. He has not performed well. And we’re also sending a hundred ventilators to Massachusetts, so we have 600 to Illinois. We have 100 to Massachusetts, we have 300 to Michigan, we have 200 to Louisiana. We have 500 ventilators, 500 going to New Jersey, and this is being done by FEMA, being delivered by FEMA and it’s some job.
<11:45>
Just think of that when you think about 500 ventilators. A ventilator is a big deal. We’re also establishing a federal medical station in the Washington DC area to help Washington, D.C. and working very closely with the mayor and everybody in Washington, D.C. At the same time. Governor Inslee, we appreciate this of Washington state has returned 400 ventilators, which can now be deployed elsewhere in our country. So the state of Washington’s done very well. They won’t be needing some of the ventilators that have been sent about 400 that’s a lot. And we appreciate that he’s able to give them back. He feels confident that they are in good shape for the coming weeks until we can declare a final victory.
<12:31>
In the days ahead, America will endure the peak of this terrible pandemic. Our warriors in this life and death battle are the incredible doctors and nurses and healthcare workers on the front line of the fight. We pledge to them our eternal gratitude and everlasting support. They make all of us very proud. Our country is very proud. We have people, they love our country. The world loves our country. Most of it, probably all of it. They just don’t say it. I can report today that the United States has now tested and given results, gotten results of 1.67 million people. That’s far more than any other country has been able to do. And you remember we inherited a broken system. So a lot of this has been developed by Tuesday. 1,200 brand new rapid point of care testing kits has been produced by Abbott Laboratories. Great company, and they’ll be distributed to all of our public health labs. That’s a 15 minute test, even less as well as the Indian Health Service, the CDC, and these strategic national stockpile. So we’re going to have 1200 in on a weekly basis. We’re making a lot more, they go very fast and very accurate tests and other countries are wanting them. So at the right time we’ll be able to do that. But right now we’re getting them to all of ours.
<13:56>
So we’ve done 1,670,000 tests. Think of that 1,670,000 tests. And we have a great system. Now we’re working with the states in almost all instances, but we have a great system. And the other thing that we bought a tremendous amount of is the hydroxy chloroquine. Hydroxy chloroquine, which I think is, you know, it’s a great malaria drug. It’s worked unbelievably. It’s a powerful drug on malaria and there are signs that it works on this, some very strong signs and in the meantime it’s been around a long time. It also works very powerfully on lupus, so there are some very strong powerful signs and we’ll have to see because again, it’s tested.
<14:51>
Now this is a new thing that just happened to as the invisible enemy we call it. And if you can, if you have a no signs of heart problems, the azithromycin, which will kill certain things that you don’t want living within your body. It’s a powerful drug. If you don’t have a problem, a heart problem, we would say, let your doctor think about it, but as a combination, I think they’re going to be, I think there’s two things that should be looked at very strongly. Now, we have purchased and we have stockpiled 29 million pills of the hydroxy chloroquine, 29 million. A lot of drug stores have them by prescription and also, and they’re not expensive. Also, we’re sending them to various labs. Our military, we’re sending them to the hospitals, we’re sending them all over. I just think it’s something, you know the expression, I’ve used it for certain reasons.
<16:09>
What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? And a lot of people are saying that when … and are taking it, if you’re a doctor, a nurse, a first responder, a medical person going into hospitals, they say taking it before the fact is good, but what do you have to lose? They say, take it, I’m not looking at it one way or the other, but we want to get out of this. If it does work, it would be a shame if we didn’t do it early. But we have some very good signs. So that’s hydroxy chloroquine and as azithromycin, and again, you have to go through your medical people get the approval. But I’ve seen things that I sort of like, so what do I know? I’m not a doctor, I’m not a doctor, but I have common sense.
<17:06>
The FDA feels good about it. They’ve, as you know, they’ve approved it. They gave it a rapid approved approval. And the reason because it’s been out there for a long time and they know the side effects and they also know the potential. So based on that, we have sent it throughout the country. We have it stockpiled about 29 million doses, 29 million doses. We have a lot of it. We hope it works. Driven by the goal of the brightest minds in science. We have the brightest minds in science, but we were driven by the goal of getting rid of this plague, getting rid of this scourge, getting rid of this virus. These brilliant minds are working on the most effective antiviral therapies and vaccines. We are working very, very hard. I have met many of the doctors that are doing it. These are doctors that are working so hard on vanquishing the virus.
<18:17>
Staying, we strongly recommend staying at home, practicing vigorous hygiene and maintaining social distance so you’re just not going to catch it. It’s the most effective weapon in this war. And I will tell you the … We are committing to the you, we’re committing to the people of our country like few administrations, few people, few professionals have ever committed before they are. They are working so hard. I see them, I see them before my eyes exhausted. People that I’m dealing with every day exhausted. They haven’t left their offices, they haven’t left their hospitals. We meet with them. We see them and tremendous strides have been made. I think the vaccines, we’ll have a report on that, but the vaccines working together with other countries. We’re also working with other countries, many other countries and we all want everyone else to be first. We’re very happy, but we are very far down the line on vaccines. We’ll see how that all works. Johnson and Johnson’s doing a great job. Working very hard. The vaccine would be great therapy. A therapy in therapeutics would be great. We’ll see what happens. In the meantime, you may listen to what I said about the two drugs mentioned.
<19:44>
My administration is rapidly implementing the largest emergency economic relief package in American history. You’ve seen what’s been happening. Billions of dollars in small business loans have already been processed through Paycheck Protection Program. So we went out on Friday and literally it’s become so popular. It’s been worked with the banks, they get it to the small business and it’s all about employment. It’s all about jobs. Want you to keep your jobs, give small business funding to keep the workers on the payroll. And we’re sending direct cash payments to millions of Americans and rushing aid to the hardest hit industries. We’re saving industries. We will be, you’ll be seeing it and if we do more, we’re going to do more and we’re going to try and get directly to people that are hit so hard. But we’re going to take care of our workers. We’re going to take care of our citizens. We’re going to take care of our small businesses. We’re going to take care of our larger businesses, the airplane industry, the airline industry. Lots of great industries that we have that are in trouble because of what took place over the last short period of time. These are industries that were doing better, for the most part, doing better than ever. The airlines were doing great.
<21:05>
Oil, was doing great oil and gas and the energy industry was doing phenomenally well and got hit like nobody’s ever been hit before. Just about like no industry’s ever been hit before. There’s never been anything like this, but we see light at the end of the tunnel. Things are happening, things are happening. We’re starting to see light at the end of the tunnel and hopefully in the not too distant future, we’ll be very proud of the job we all did. Can never be happy when so many people are dying, but we’re going to be very proud of the job we did to keep the death down to an absolute minimum. The least TT could have happened with this terrible, terrible virus.
<21:52>
In closing, I also want to note today is Palm Sunday and at the beginning of Holy Week for Christians in America and all around the world. While we may be apart from-
<22:03>
… all around the world. While we may be apart from one another, as you can see from our great churches, our great pastors and ministers are out there working very hard, but we may be apart we can use this time to turn to reflection and prayer and our own personal relationship with God. I would ask that all Americans pray for the heroic doctors and nurses, for the truck drivers and grocery store workers, and for everyone fighting this battle. I had mentioned yesterday where I see the nurses rushing into hospitals and they’re putting on their outfits and they’re putting on their masks and goggles in some cases, they’re rushing into war. They’re rushing into war, and I see people from apartment houses screaming and shouting and singing their praises. It’s an incredible thing. They’re warriors these doctors and nurses. They’re running into buildings and they’re literally putting it on as the doors are opening, they’re putting all this stuff and running inside and they’re running inside to tremendous danger. Tremendous danger.
<23:11>
But most of all, I’d like to ask for your prayers for the families who have lost loved ones, ask God to comfort them in their hour of grief. It’s a great hour of grief for our nation, for the world. This morning I was talking to 151. For four days, I said 151. 151 countries. This morning it’s 182 countries. It jumped up a lot. So as of this morning, it’s 182 countries are under attack from this monster.
<23:55>
With the faith of our families and the spirit of our people and the grace of our God, we will endure, we will overcome, we will prevail. We have learned so much. We will be stronger than ever and I just want to thank everybody. I want to thank the incredible professionals on the task force also. We had a big meeting today. Were calls all day long to so many different people and I think our package to get everyone working when we’re ready is really turning out to be successful. We may have to make it larger because it’s been really successful, but all of that comes back to this country. We want to get them back. We want to get our people back to work. Everybody wants to be back. We want to open up our country as soon as possible.
<24:40>
So with that, I’m going to ask Dr. Birx to say a few words and she’s got some charts to show you and thank you very much. Thank you.
<30:23>
Thank you very much. Admiral, please.
<33:57>
You did a great job. Thank you very much, Admiral. Mike, please.
<34:04>
Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. My last appearance here, I mentioned that the President had given the Department of Veterans Affairs very specific instructions to be as aggressive as possible in response to the virus crisis and not only to protect veterans but also to help the American people. As many of you know, we have three primary missions at VA. One is support veterans health, the other is to provide veterans with benefits, and the third is memorial services. But we have a fourth mission and that is to support the nation in times of national emergency, both in war and in peace. We provide a bridge from the federal government to the states and localities during these emergencies. As a result of that, I have ordered our veterans hospitals to begin preparing more than 1500 beds to make them available both at the ICU and the acute care level to the states and localities across the country. As a result of that, we have opened up approximately 100 beds in the metropolitan New York area, in Brooklyn, Manhattan, and East Orange, New Jersey.
<35:20>
We will be informing the Governor of Louisiana, John Bel Edwards, tomorrow that we will give him access to our VA Medical Center in Shreveport, Louisiana to come to the aid of the people of The Pelican State. I’ve also given instructions to initiate the fourth mission in Michigan. We will be providing the people of Michigan access to hospital beds in both Ann Arbor and in Detroit. We’ve also provided a pharmaceutical trailer to be used by the governor of Michigan at Cobo Hall to support the citizens of Michigan who will be coming into that facility for medical care. We have also informed the Commonwealth of Massachusetts that we will be helping them in their efforts to protect their most vulnerable citizens and two of their nursing homes.
<36:10>
So in accord with the President’s instructions, the 400,000 men and women of the Department of Veterans Affairs are in this fight. We are in the fight not only for the nine and a half million veterans who are part of our service, but we are in the fight for the people of the United States. Thank you, Robert.
<36:32>
Thank you.
<43:55>
Thank you, Mike, very much. Thank you.
<43:59>
Go ahead.
<44:44>
We do get orders for a lot more than sometimes we think an area needs. Generally speaking, we like to either negotiate that down or give it to them as they want. So we’ve had a lot of orders that we think are high, but we generally, if we have it, for instance, with the medicines and with other things, we like to give it to them. Every day we’re building up and building it up very rapidly and deploying it. But we do get orders from some of the states where we don’t think they need it. We try and get it for them what they want anyway. Okay, go ahead.
<45:20>
I didn’t speak to him, no. I did get a call from the ambassador. Hey, it’s a big move going to the hospital. That’s a big thing. He’s a great gentleman. So I just hope he’s okay.
<45:57>
Well, we’re talking about it, and we’re talking about doing something for them, but we’re really looking at the conclusion. We don’t want to focus on that now. They’re incredible. They’re not saying, we’re not doing it. They go in with good equipment, with great equipment and with stuff that’s not so good. Sometimes they catch it wearing the best stuff you can buy, brand new, the best stuff. This is a very tough enemy, but these are amazing people. No, we are talking about something, but we’re really thinking about let’s get it finished first before we do that. Please.
<46:51>
I don’t think they’re so different. I think we all know that we have to reach a certain point, and that point is going to be a horrific point in terms of death. But it’s also a point at which things are going to start changing. We’re getting very close to that level right now, and the next week-and-a=half, two weeks are going to be, I think they’re going to be very difficult.
<47:12>
At the same time, we understand what they represent and what that time represents. Hopefully we can get this over with because this is a very horrible thing for the world. Look, we’re one country out of 182 now that have, 182 countries. I have a friend of mine, he said didn’t know we had so many countries in the world. 182 countries are now affected by this. So we want to get it over with. Okay? Please.
<47:42>
Yes.
<47:49>
Well, we hope we can stay under those numbers. Those are numbers of death, and we hope we can stay under those numbers. That would be terrific and as far under those numbers as possible. Now, if we did nothing, you know that number too. But the American people really stepped up. So did the professionals. They just really stepped up. So we’re hoping to stay under those numbers, and that means the minimum and the maximum, but we’re hoping to stay under the minimum number. You know what that number was.
<48:24>
I would say the answer is yes, but I would also say that we’re not going to know really in terms of a final toll until we get out to the end, and we’re probably possibly not so far away. We’re getting closer, but it’s our goal to stay as far under that minimum number, the minimum number, as possible. Okay? That’s what we want to do. Go ahead.
<49:15>
Because I want people to live, and I’m seeing people dying. I’ve seen people that are going to die without it. You know the expression when that’s happening, they should do it. What really do we have to lose? We also have, this medicine has been tested for many years for malaria and for lupus. So it’s been out there. So it’s a very strong, powerful medicine, but it doesn’t kill people. We have some very good results and some very good tests. You’ve seen the same tests that I have.
<49:48>
In France, they had a very good test. They’re continuing. But we don’t have time to go and say, gee, let’s take a couple of years and test it out, and let’s go and test with the test tubes and the laboratories. We don’t have time. I’d love to do that, but we have people dying today. As we speak, there are people dying. If it works, that’d be great. If it doesn’t work, we know for many years malaria, it’s incredible what it’s done for malaria. It’s incredible what it’s done for lupus, but it doesn’t kill people.
<50:19>
That’s one of the things with the vaccine. When we have a vaccine, we have to do tests because when you inject that vaccine, when they take whatever it is they have to take, we have to make sure it doesn’t have a horrible impact, destroy somebody. It could. So we have to test it for long period of time. This one, not so much because it’s been out there.
<50:42>
Now, I’m not acting as a doctor. I’m saying do what you want, but there are some good signs. You’ve read the signs. I’ve read the signs. With the other one, there are some very good signs also. Going together works very well. But there may be an indication that if you have a problem with your heart, you shouldn’t take what we call the Z-Pak. You shouldn’t take it, and that’s okay.
<51:08>
But I would love to go to a laboratory and spend a couple of years testing something. We don’t have time. We don’t have two hours because there are people dying right now. If it does help, great. If it doesn’t help, we gave it a shot. We gave it a shot. That’s the way I feel.
<51:28>
We passed something. Yeah, I would be very serious about taking it. We passed something that I’m very proud of. It’s called Right to Try. For 45, 50 years they’ve been trying. It makes so much sense. We have the greatest doctors and labs and lab technicians, the greatest medicines, the greatest minds in the world. Everybody admits it. When we’re close to having something or when we have something that tests incredibly well, you couldn’t use it for years because they would take years and years to test. So with the help of also Democrats, I got it bipartisan, but they’ve been trying to get this passed for decades. You know that. It’s called Right to Try. So a person would be diagnosed terminally ill from something. In the old days, meaning before a year ago, they would say, do you think I could try this pill, this whatever, this medicine that’s testing so well? No, you can’t do that. You can’t do that. Under no circumstances. They’d leave for Asia, they’d leave for Europe, if they had money. If they had no money, they’d go home and die with no hope.
<52:40>
We’ve got a thing called Right to Try. If somebody’s very ill, terminally ill, they’re going to die. It was very complex. It wasn’t as easy as it sounds because there were huge liability problems. The drug companies didn’t want to do it because they didn’t want it on test results because these are very sick people. So they didn’t want to bring down their test results. The insurance companies had tremendous problems.
<53:05>
I got everybody in the room. I said, “Look, we’ll sign a waiver. The person taking it will say, we’re not going to sue. The family’s not going to sue the drug company, not going to sue the insurance company, not going to sue the state, the city or the federal government.” Okay? It’s called exculpation, and we got it done. It’s a very simple agreement. I don’t know why nobody ever thought of it, but they never thought of it. I did, and we got it done. Now, we have Right to Try, which is actually, in my opinion, much more difficult than what we’re talking about here. But if there’s a medicine or something, a possible cure or something that’s looking good and somebody has something they’re going to die or they’re very sick, they take it. We’ve had some unbelievable results, unbelievable results, and it also gives the people hope. Yes, please.
<54:03>
And many of them do.
<54:08>
Sure. They should be finished in about a year.
<54:16>
I’m not. I’m not.
<54:17>
Very simply, I’m not at all. I’m not. Look, you know what I’m trying to do. I’m trying to save lives.
<54:24>
I want them to try it. It may work, and it may not work. But if it doesn’t work, it’s nothing lost by doing it. Nothing. Because we know long-term what I want. I want to save lives, and I don’t want it to be in a lab for the next year-and-a-half as people are dying all over the place.
<54:43>
That’s right.
<54:44>
Well, I’ll tell you what I accomplished. We bought massive amounts of it, 29 million doses of it. We have it coming from all of the labs who are actually now doing it here because in case it does work, we want to have it. We’ve given it to drug stores. We’re sending it all over. FEMA is doing it. FEMA is doing it. We’re doing it through different channels, many different channels, including the companies that make it. It’s a very special thing.
<55:12>
Now, it may not work, in which case, hey, it didn’t work. It may work, in which case it’s going to save a lot of lives. Now, a lot of people say, if the people walking in prior to getting it, if they take it, it has a profound effect. Well, maybe it does and maybe it doesn’t. <crosstalk 00:55:30> I don’t want to wait a year-and-a-half to find out. Only CNN would ask that question. Fake news. Go ahead. Bunch of fakers.
<57:49>
I also think that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx are very impressed with the American people, and I’m not going to put words in anybody’s mouth. I would never do that, but I am, and I will say that they are doing maybe a better job than we all thought even possible. When you look at streets in New York where there’s nobody in the street, no cars, no nothing. I see it. I’ve seen those streets for a long time, and they’re packed all the time. Now you see there’s nobody.
<58:18>
You look at other places. You look at what’s going on in California where they’re doing a fantastic job. They really are. The governor’s doing great. I’m proud of them. I’m proud of a lot of people. I’m proud of a lot of people on the other side, a lot of people. I’m really delighted to work with people that, frankly on other issues, I didn’t get along so well with. We disagree on this or that. We don’t have to go into that now, but we’re getting along with a lot of people, and they’re happy with us. We’re happy with them.
<58:53>
But I really believe that the American people are doing a better job than anybody would have thought even possible. That’s one of the reasons we can even be talking about the kind of number that we hopefully will be talking about, which is at the minimum level instead of the maximum or beyond. It’s not even the maximum. It’s much beyond the maximum level, which would be horrific. Yeah, please.
<59:36>
Well, it was voluntary as I saw it yesterday. Certainly if they’d want to, I would encourage it. I would have absolutely no problem with that if they wanted. We had a long meeting today. There’s good separation. But the task force meets, and I would certainly have absolutely no problem if they wanted to. I think frankly it’s something, at least for a period of time, where it might be advisable. It’s advisory, and we’ll see what happens. Yes, please.
<01:00:16>
Not here. No, not here.
<01:00:18>
You’ve seen in Spain, and you’ve seen it different. They’re not sending faulty things to us.
<01:00:24>
No. We test it. We look at it. We check it out. Please.
<01:00:52>
We’re also sending from other locations. And when it comes to the ventilators, which are very complex, we are now building, we have now under construction, literally thousands of ventilators. But so far I think our projections on ventilators have been right. They’ve been correct. Did you have something for who?
<01:01:36>
Well, it’s turning out that we need less hospital beds. That’s what you’re talking about and that’s what we … Well, we may have models, but we’ve been sort of saying that. In New York we were saying, we think you’re going to need less. Now, let’s hope that continues, but right now I heard Governor Cuomo this morning, and he was saying less hospital beds, also less death. That was a very big thing. First time, less death today than yesterday. Right? That’s a big thing. But also less hospital beds. That means less patients because basically it’s less patients, and we were saying that. It also means less ventilators. So there’s a lot of very positive things happening. Okay, please.
<01:02:33>
We have this tiny platform, and I’d love it to be wider. You’re staying away from each other. Mike, you were tested?
<01:02:44>
Okay, like recently. So was I a couple of days ago.
<01:02:51>
We are. We are who we are on this platform. But I get next to him, I don’t breathe. I’m only kidding. We are sometimes forced into positions that I’d rather be away, but you’re all looking for questions. Mike’s a very big part of this. I am. It’s very difficult maintaining this distance on this little area.
<01:03:28>
Well, if the oil price stays the way it is. Because of people that really want to see it go up. When I say get, we want to save a great industry. We built a great industry in this country. If they don’t get along, I would do that. Yeah. I would do tariffs, very substantial tariffs, because we’re independent now. We have our own oil. If I did the tariffs, we essentially would be saying we don’t want foreign oil. We don’t want any foreign oil. We’re just going to use our oil, and that would help to save an industry, and it’s become a tremendous job producer, and it’s great to be independent. We’re independent. Our energy is now independent. We produce more oil and gas than anybody else, than any other country, and that all took place over a very recent time.
<01:04:16>
Now, in the meantime, I’m seeing 91 cents a gallon out on the road. Okay? There’s a lot of people are happy. I see very inexpensive jet fuel. We’re trying to save the airline industry. But I want to save our great energy industry, and that’s what we’re doing. Yeah. So I would absolutely do that. What we’ll do, the price will still be very low. But what we’ll do is we’ll save, and very importantly, we’ll save tens of thousands of jobs.
<01:04:47>
One of the other things we’re doing is having oil shipped to our strategic oil reserves. Okay? We’re buying it for the right price, and we’re shipping it. In some cases we’re storing it for nothing. They’re there. We’re filling up our reserves with this very inexpensive oil. Nobody thought they’d ever see a price. This is like from the 1950s where they had big dollars. Okay?
<01:05:11>
So no, I would use tariffs if I had to. I don’t think I’m going to have to, because Russia doesn’t benefit by having this, and Saudi Arabia doesn’t benefit by having oil and gas. So they are major sources of income. So it’s obviously very bad for them. But we have an industry that’s a very important industry, and it’s really formed beautifully. It was the virus that killed it because what happened is it’s down 40% from the day this happened, 40%. Otherwise it would be doing phenomenally well. So that’s it. Yeah.
<01:06:01>
No, but I like the concept of it. I think it’s good.
<01:06:03>
No, but I like the concept of it. I think it’s good. We’re talking about a different way of doing it. But I like the concept. I like the concept of infrastructure. Our country has to be rebuilt. They spent all this money in the Middle East, $8 trillion. We’re up to now $8 trillion in the Middle East. We got to rebuild our country, okay. We have to rebuild our roads and our schools, our bridges. We have to rebuild our country.
<01:06:24>
So I like an infrastructure bill. I also like money going directly to people. It’s not their fault that this happened. And I do think this, especially the faster we can get it open, our country. Can you believe we’re talking about our country? Getting our country open. The faster we get it open, the bigger the boom, the bigger the rocket ship going up.
<01:06:44>
I think it has a chance to go really quickly, relatively quickly. I’d like to see very quickly, but we’ll see. But part of the stimulus and part of what we’re doing, that will help it. And the nice part is, we’re paying practically zero interest rates. We’re paying very little. It’s one of the reasons I like the infrastructure bill, because we’re borrowing. We have a strong dollar, and the advantage to a strong dollar is everybody wants to invest in this country. They all want to buy our dollar.
<01:07:18>
I think so. Yeah, from what I’m hearing, yeah, a couple of weeks. That’s what I’m hearing. Yeah. Please.
<01:07:31>
Yeah, we discussed it with the staff. We discussed it with FDA. FDA approved it, so… Which is another point. I mean, it’s been approved by FDA, which is very important. If it wasn’t an approved by FDA, then I couldn’t do this. But FDA’s approved it, the hydroxy.
<01:07:56>
Well, we’ll see if it works. No, it’s not going to hurt people. It can help them, but it’s not going to hurt them. That’s the beauty of it. You see? It can help them, but it’s not going to hurt them. What do you have to lose? Okay. Question you had in the back, please.
<01:08:13>
Right.
<01:08:21>
Well, we’re going to have to, we’ll answer that question later. All I can say is that right now, things are looking really good and opening up with a bang will be a great thing and there’s nobody going to be happier than me. Please go ahead.
<01:08:46>
32,000 will be what?
<01:08:51>
In addition to the ones that we’ve already sent?
<01:08:54>
Don’t forget, we have almost 10,000, a little more than 9,000 right now. And those are ready to rock should we need them. And we had to keep it. You understand that flexibility. So that if we need them in New York, which we might not. If we need them. But they’re ready to move. We’re already, military. It’s a military operation. We are ready to move. They’ll be moved immediately into whatever section of the country we need. Would you like to answer that, by the way?
<01:09:53>
Yes.
<01:09:57>
No, but they’re not going to be long. They’ve started. GM, Ford. We have many, we have 11 companies, approximately 11 companies building them, and we’re going to have a stockpile for future. Hopefully we never have to use them. They should’ve, the hospitals, the States, should’ve bought a stockpile. They didn’t do that. So we’ve made up for it. But if we have extras, other countries need them. I mean, you see UK needs them badly. France needs them badly. Italy needs them badly. They need them. So it’s complicated. It’s a big piece of equipment. It’s expensive. And we’ll be able to help other countries after we take care of our needs. Yes, please. Go ahead.
<01:10:42>
I actually chose you, but that’s okay.
<01:10:43>
Let him go. That’s alright. Go ahead.
<01:10:59>
Oh, I know. Because they don’t do construction techniques that work and that are better. I mean, I see a highway, which is what I do. I do construction. What I did. I see a highway. That’s good, but it’s got a bad top. And it’s got a big base, concrete base underneath. And I’ll see them come, I don’t want to say where, but I could tell you, I could give you plenty of examples, and they rip the hell out of it. They take out the base. They take out everything. Now they pour a new base that isn’t as good, isn’t as deep, isn’t as thick. The concrete base was fantastic. The footing. It takes forever. <crosstalk 01:11:32> Wait a minute. It takes forever. And instead of scraping out the asphalt or whatever may be the top, scraping it off and putting the new asphalt down, putting the new median in, then they could have done it. And then they open the highway and it starts to crack. The reason is because it hasn’t been set. And they spend 10, 15, 20 times more money than they have to. I never believe, when I watch these people doing highways and doing roadways and doing work, how they take the most expensive solution. And the bottom line, the job itself is far worse.
<01:12:16>
Well, yeah. Hopefully they’re not going to be staying at home for long. Hopefully this will be out and we’re not going to have that kind of time. If we have that kind of time, we made a big mistake. Please go ahead.
<01:12:33>
Who has that information?
<01:12:35>
You will? Go ahead, Mike.
<01:13:54>
Tuesday they go out.
<01:14:01>
They go out on Tuesday.
<01:14:05>
Some have gone out by the way, but the bulk of them of go out on Tuesday. Yeah, please.
<01:14:21>
No.
<01:14:33>
No. There’s not a change, but we’re supposed to be the backup. But like in Illinois, the Governor couldn’t do his job, so we had to help him. We’re sending 600 ventilators. We’re building a hospital in McCormick Place. So we have some people that were not able to do. We have other people that needed a little help. In New York, we had to give a lot of help. But we worked very well with Governor Cuomo and with Mayor de Blasio. But no, we are meant to be the backup, but we’ve taken on a much bigger role than that. And that’s okay. I have no objection to it. Now in some cases, this works so well where they’re actually now seeing, they think they’re over the big problem. And they’re actually calling us and they’re saying, you can take your equipment back now. But we’re really deployed as a backup. But I feel we’re much more than that. They’ve done a much better job.
<01:15:25>
I will say this. I don’t think that the people that have represented this country, the federal government, whether it’s the Admiral and the Generals and all of the people that we call to the fore, I just… They’re heroes for what they’ve done. What they’ve been able to do in a short period of time, they took a system that was broken. Just like we did the military. Our military was broken. Our military was depleted. It was broken. And we’ve rebuilt our military. We’ve rebuilt this whole system too. In a way, Kelly, I appreciate your question because you’re hearing all of the things that we’re, that the millions of masks, the hundreds of thousands of gowns. And they’re surgical. They’re their protective gowns. At the highest level. We’re getting it to the various States. And most of the governors are very happy.
<01:16:19>
Now a lot of times it’s politics. Maybe I do the same thing, I don’t know. But they’ll try and act not so happy. I will tell you, when I speak to them or when Vice President speaks to them, they’re singing the praises of all of these people. So I always take umbrage when somebody says something about what we’ve done. Now to do this-
<01:16:41>
To do this should have taken-
<01:16:42>
To do what we’ve been able to do and to build it to a level should have taken a year, should have taken two years. They did it in a matter of weeks. And we’re helping States. It’s them. As an example, in New York had the right to buy 16,000 ventilators. They could’ve bought them. They didn’t. I understand why they didn’t. It was a very expensive purchase. Very expensive and that’s a lot, 16,000. And they chose to do something else with their money. I understand that. The problem is when something like this comes along, what you don’t expect. Look, 1917. That’s a long time ago. Perhaps 100 million people died. It’s a long time ago. So people don’t think it’s going to happen. I would have… Frankly, I mean, did anybody in this room think a thing like this could happen? But it happened.
<01:17:29>
And we built up a force. This is a military operation, as it turned out, it really is. With FEMA, with the Army Corps of Engineers. I mean, Army Corps of Engineers. And you were very gracious on that point. The Army Corps of Engineers building 2,500 units of beds and everything else now. And then Governor Cuomo called and he wanted it to go COVID, meaning, for the problem. And we said, well it wasn’t supposed to be that way. But we want to get it done. And we moved military personnel. So now military personnel are operating it. And I’ll tell you what’s good. It hasn’t been very full. That’s a good thing, not a bad thing. It hasn’t been. Now, maybe over the next week something will happen, but it hasn’t been. But we have, because it’s better than the other alternative where we run out.
<01:18:24>
But they built, actually, 2,900 beds. And also, we built four medical centers in New York. We’ve built four hospitals, four medical centers. And a lot more than that. It’s such an honor to have done it, but the people that did it are amazing and they have to be appreciated by the States. Not me. They don’t have to appreciate me at all. I don’t care about me. They have to appreciate the generals, the admirals, the doctors, the nurses. I mean, we’re bringing now 3000 people in that are medical professionals, that are coming from all over the country to help New York City, help New York State, and help many other places. I just think it’s incredible what they’ve done, and I don’t think that they’ve been appreciated. Me, you can forget about. Me, you can-
<01:19:14>
Yeah, I actually mean it. They have to be appreciated. Go in the back, please.
<01:19:26>
I do. I do. I see light at the end of the tunnel. If I didn’t, I would not be very thrilled with what we’ve done. No, I see light at the end of the tunnel. I think, indications are some of the numbers coming out today. I think, we had a very good meeting today. We’re seeing things that we don’t even report because we think it’s too early to report. No, I think we’re seeing things happen that are very good.
<01:19:52>
And we also know, all of us, including the medical professionals, that we have to open our country up. We have to get, we have to open our country up. No country was designed for this, where you close it. We’re in the midst of the greatest economic boom in history, for any country. Our country had the greatest economic boom in history. We had the most people working that we’ve ever had, almost 160 million people. And then, from 160 million, they want nobody to leave their house. You use the term cold turkey, right? That’s called cold turkey. A country is not designed, this country is not designed for that. We have to get our country back and I think it’s going to come back and I hope it’s going to come back very quickly.
<01:20:41>
Please go ahead.
<01:20:44>
That’s good.
<01:20:45>
No, she feels that way.
<01:20:47>
She feels that… I would wear one. I mean, I just generally am not in a… Like, I should, would you like me to wear one right now answering your question? That would be a little awkward, I guess. But no. I mean, again, I would wear one if it was, if I thought it was important. She likes the idea of wearing it. Yeah, she does. A lot of people do. Again, it’s a recommendation and I understand that recommendation. And I’m okay with it.
<01:21:19>
Wouldn’t be surprised.
<01:21:23>
Sure. What would you like to know?
<01:21:43>
Sure. Doctor? And by the way, he’d like to see the company open too.
<01:21:48>
It’s called an American who loves our country.
<01:25:30>
And we’ve made great progress with the antibody testing. Fantastic progress.
<01:25:39>
You know how many times he’s answered that question?
<01:25:43>
Maybe 15. 15 times. You don’t have to ask the question.
<01:25:47>
He answered that question 15 times.
<01:26:10>
Good. Very good answer. All right. I think that really could be it. That was a very, I loved that answer, especially on the face mask. I thought it was very good. Go ahead.
<01:26:27>
Oh, stop it. Who are you with? By the way, who are you with?
<01:26:27>
Who are you with?
<01:26:32>
That’s another beautiful < crosstalk 00:01:26:35>.
<01:26:37>
Are you ready? Are you ready?
<01:26:38>
Let me just answer your question because I know exactly. Same question you asked all the time. Ready? They have done an unbelievable job-
<01:26:44>
in delivering for the Associated Press. Which is not so great. Not like it used to be. The people that you’re looking at, FEMA, the military, what they’ve done is a miracle. What they’ve done is a miracle in getting all of this stuff. What they’ve done for States is incredible. And you should be thanking them for what they’ve done. Not always asking wiseguy questions. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.
