<00:00>
With Kevin McCarthy, future speaker of the house, I hope. And he’s done a fantastic job for the people of California. And also the people of California have done a fantastic job, when you take a look at the bump, and how they’re doing out there. I congratulate everybody out there, but I thought I’d have Kevin say a few words. So Kevin, please.
<01:20>
Great job you’re doing. Thank you.
<01:22>
You go ahead. I’ll talk to you later.
<01:28>
Okay. Thank you very much everybody. And I want to start by saying that our hearts go out to the people of New York as they bear the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic in America. That seems to be the hotspot right now. But you have some others as you know, that are very bad, very bad. Louisiana is getting hit very hard. Parts of Michigan are getting hit very, very hard. New Jersey is surprisingly, it’s much greater than anybody would have thought. They’re doing a really good job. Governor is doing a really good job out there.
<02:03>
New York’s first responders, EMTs, doctors, nurses are showing incredible courage under pressure. They’re the best in the world. We will take every action and we’ll spare no resource, financial, medical, scientific, we will not spare anything. We’ll get it back into shape. The Empire State, the governor’s doing an excellent job. They’re all working very hard together. At the request of the Governor, as you know, the Javits Center… We have 2,500 beds and we’re going to allow that to be a system where this horrible disease can be looked after. The patients can be looked after. That was going to be for regular medical problems such as accidents. It’s very interesting, the Governor is telling me, “We don’t have too many accidents, very few people driving.” So we’re going to put that facility into play, which is a big facility. The ship will be staying the way it is, but we’re putting that facility into play to help them.
<03:12>
And today also the CDC is announcing additional steps Americans can take to defend against the transmission of the virus. From recent studies we know that the transmission from individuals without symptoms is playing a more significant role in the spread of the virus than previously understood. So, you don’t seem to have symptoms and it still gets transferred. In light of these studies, the CDC is advising the use of nonmedical cloth face covering as an additional voluntary public health measure. So it’s voluntary, you don’t have to do. They suggested for a period of time, but this is voluntary.
<03:55>
I don’t think I’m going to be doing it, but you have a lot of ways you can look at it as follows. The CDC is recommending that Americans wear a basic cloth or fabric mask that can be either purchased online or simply made at home, probably material that you’d have at home. These face coverings can be easily washed or reused. I want to emphasize that the CDC is not recommending the use of medical grade or surgical grade masks, and we want that to be used for our great medical people that are working so hard and doing some job. Medical protective gear must be reserved for the frontline healthcare workers who are performing those vital services. The new mask guidelines also do not replace CDC’s guidance on social distancing, including staying in your home when possible, standing at least six feet apart for a period of time. Again, we’re going to all come back together here. We’re going all come back together. And, practicing hand hygiene, which we should do anyway.
<04:59>
A lot of things I think are going to spill over. Shaking hands, maybe, will stay with our country for a long time beyond this. One of our great doctors was telling me that, as you know, we have flus every year and the number of people killed by the flu is very substantial. He said that if they didn’t shake hands, that number would be substantially lower. So maybe some of these things, longterm, will be good. But those guidelines are still the best and the safest way to avoid the infection.
<05:36>
So with the masks it’s going to be, really, a voluntary thing. You can do it, you don’t have to do it. I’m choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it and that’s okay. It may be good, probably will. They’re making a recommendation. It’s only a recommendation, it’s voluntary.
<05:54>
We’ve also taken action to ensure no barrier to any American seeking testing or treatment of the coronavirus. The largest insurer nationwide, the Blue Cross Blue Shield system, has now announced that it will not require any copays, which is really something, that’s a tremendous statement, from patients of the virus treatment for the next 60 days. Similar to the commitments of Cigna, Humana, Anthem. Those are great companies and they’re all doing the same thing. So copays, for them to do that is a big statement. We appreciate it.
<06:33>
Today I can so proudly announce that hospitals and healthcare providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government using funds from the Economic Relief Package congress passed last month. That was as per the question yesterday, and actually the day before yesterday. This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment. So that, I think, answers the question pretty well and very much in the favor of our great people.
<07:10>
I’m also signing a directive invoking the Defense Production Act to prohibit export of scarce health and medical supplies by unscrupulous actors and profiteers. The Secretary of Homeland Security will work with FEMA to prevent the export of N95 respirators, surgical masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment. We need these items immediately for domestic use, we have to have them. But we’ve done really well with the purchase of items and you’ll be hearing about that shortly.
<07:48>
We’ve already leveraged the DPA to stop the hoarding and price gouging of crucial supplies. Under that authority, this week the Department of Health and Human Services working with the Department of Justice took custody of nearly 200,000 N95 respirators, 130,000 surgical masks, 600,000 gloves. As well as bottles, many, many, many bottles and disinfectant sprays that were being hoarded. All of this material is now being given to healthcare workers, most of it’s already been given out. And we’ve given a lot to New York, a lot to New Jersey, a lot to other places.
<08:29>
In addition, to ensure that health care workers in New York have the protective equipment they need, the federal government in the name of the Department of Defense is providing about 8.1 million N95 respirators, Department of Defense. And we’ve already given 200,000 of them to New York City. Mayor De Blasio needed them very badly, so we got them to Mayor De Blasio in New York City and they were very grateful. 8.1 million, and we’re going to be increasing that number from 8.1 million to more. That’s a lot of N95 respirators.
<09:11>
Today my team spoke with the CEO of Oschner Health and the CEO of LCMC, the two largest health systems in New Orleans. They said they feel that they currently have enough ventilators. I think a lot of people are going to have enough ventilators, and masks, and appreciate what we did and all of the things we’ve been doing with them, working with them. The CEO of Oschner, Warner Thomas, who’s really been fantastic I have to say, indicated a need for 230,000 surgical gowns and I instructed FEMA to deliver them tomorrow. That’s Louisiana, New Orleans. 230,000 surgical gowns, they’ll have them by tomorrow. We’re expanding the role of the armed forces in our response effort because no one is better prepared to win a war than the United States military. And we are in a war, the invisible enemy, remember. Over 9,000 retired Army medical personnel have answered their nation’s call and are now supporting field hospitals and medical facilities all across the country. Like what I just told you, that Governor Cuomo requested we do something in Javits where we’ve taken over. And we’re going to have that manned by the military, because it’s very tough to get more people in the New York area. So we’re going to have it manned by the military, Javits Center.
<10:44>
National Guard members have been activated to help States build new treatment centers and assist in the seamless distribution of medical supplies. That includes National Guard. The National Guard is assisting very strongly because the States were, in many cases, unable to have the delivery capability from warehouses and other places that we put the supplies. So I’ve given approval to use the National Guard, the various National Guards in the different States. And they’re doing a fantastic job of not only protecting people, but delivering material.
<11:23>
The Army Corps of Engineers has assessed more than 100 facilities in all 50 States and is rapidly building temporary hospitals and alternative care sites in many States. In New York, New Jersey, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, Ohio. They’re doing a lot of work in just those States, plus additionals that will be announced probably tomorrow, but they’re doing some job. The Army Corps of Engineers, what a job they’re doing. And FEMA, what a job they’re doing.
<12:01>
As we deploy the power of our military, we’re also deploying the skill of our doctors, scientists, and medical researchers. We continue to study the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine and other therapies in the treatment and prevention of the virus. We will keep the American people fully informed in our findings. Hydroxychloroquine, I don’t know, it’s looking like it’s having some good results. I hope that, that would be a phenomenal thing. But we have it right now in, approximately, it’s increased to 1,500 people. I spoke with Dr. Zucker in New York, terrific guy by the way, he’s doing a good job. And I spoke to Governor Cuomo last evening and this morning about it. It’s been there for about three and a half days and many other places it’s being tested, too. And we have a tremendous supply of it. We’ve ordered it in the case that it works, and it could have some pretty big impacts. We’ll see what happens.
<13:07>
My administration is also working to get relief to American workers and businesses. In day one of the Paycheck Protection Program, as Kevin said, more than $3.5 billion in guaranteed loans have been processed to help small businesses keep their workers employed during this unprecedented time. Bank of America has been incredible. Of the big banks, Bank of America has really stepped forward and done a great job. And then you have the community banks, your smaller banks, and we’re already at three point $5 billion going out to incredible people. But that’s way ahead of schedule.
<13:47>
The SBA and the treasury are working around the clock. And our banking partners are really incredible, and they’re ensuring that the money gets to small businesses as quickly as possible. And then the small business, in turn, take care of employees that they would have had to let go. And now they’ll keep them, and that’s good. Then they’re going to open for business and they’re going to have their employees, and we’ll try and get back to where we were. Eventually, we’re going to supersede where we were.
<14:15>
The energy industry has been especially hard hit in the crisis. This afternoon I met with Greg Garland of Phillips 66, Dave Hagar of Devon Energy, Harold Hamm of Continental Resources, Jeff Hildebrand of Hilcorp Energy, Vicky Hollub of Occidental Petroleum, Mike Sommers of the American Petroleum Institute, Kelcy Warren of Energy Transfer Partners, Mike Wirth of Chevron, and Darren Woods of ExxonMobil. I informed them that we will be making space available in the strategic petroleum reserve to let American producers store surplus oil that can be sold at a later time. There’s a tremendous abundance of oil, primarily because of the virus. The virus has just stopped demand of everything, including oil. So we’re working with our great energy companies. These are great companies. They employee tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. They’ve kept America really going for a long time, and no big price hikes, no big anything. I mean, they’ve just kept it going and now they got hit. But with all the jobs and all of the good that they do, we’re going to make sure that they stay in good shape.
<15:35>
America is engaged in a historic battle to safeguard the lives of our citizens, our future society. Our greatest weapon is the discipline and determination of every citizen to stay at home and stay healthy for a long time. We want them to stay healthy for a long time, so stay at home. This is ending, this will end. You’ll see some bad things, and then you’re going to see some really good things and it’s not going to be too long.
<16:04>
We will heal our citizens, and we will care for our neighbors, and we will unleash the full might of the United States of America to vanquish the virus. And with that I’d like to ask Mike Pence to come up. Vice-President, say a few words. And we’ll have a couple of other quick talks on a couple of subjects, and we’ll take questions.
<16:26>
It’s a beautiful Friday in Washington, D.C. and our country’s a great place. And we’re getting better, we’re getting better very quickly. This was artificially induced, they said, “Close it down, you have to close it down.” We closed it down and we’re healing, and we’re going to get it better fast. So Mike, if you could come up and say a few words, please.
<29:10>
Okay. Let’s go. Steve?
<29:21>
I just don’t want to wear one myself. It’s a recommendation. They recommend it. I’m feeling good. I just don’t want to be doing, I don’t know, somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful Resolute Desk, the great Resolute Desk. I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens. I don’t know, somehow I don’t see it for myself. Maybe I’ll change my mind, but this will pass and hopefully it’ll pass very quickly.
<29:55>
Now, with that being said, if somebody wants to… I mean most people can just make something out of a certain material, so it’s very well designated. It’s very simple to do. I won’t be doing it personally. It’s a recommendation. Okay?
<30:15>
Surgeon General, please.
<34:29>
Okay.
<34:43>
I’d talk to the governors. The governors know what they’re doing, they’ve been doing a great job. I guess we’re close to 90% anyway. The states that we’re talking about are not in jeopardy. No, I would leave it to the governors. I like that from the standpoint of governing and I like that from the standpoint of even our Constitution.
<35:10>
I pointed at you. I heard a different voice, I heard a much different voice. We’ll get you later.
<35:22>
Well, a lot of things came out. It’s a great industry. It’s an important industry. It’s a tremendous job-producing industry and it’s just vital. It was also a very interesting because they all would get the test before they came into the room. You have the head of ExxonMobil, you have all these guys taking the test and they all passed with flying colors. That was good. They left happy in that respect, at least. There’s just an overabundance of oil right now. Oil and gas, tremendous overabundance and it was caused… They were doing a great job. They were producing a lot of energy, but then you had the virus come along and it knocked another 35%, maybe 40%, off of the market. There’s too much oil, there’s a glut, and these are great companies and they’ll figure it out. It’s free market. We’ll figure it out.
<36:16>
They were having a competition. We’ll see how it all works out. I think it’s going to work out very well. It’s going to take a long time to get rid of that. There’s massive excess amount of oil and gas. Massive, like probably there’s never been. Where that does work out well, I guess you could say, is for drivers. I think in certain locations, it’s down to 90 and 95 cents a gallon right now on the road. But we have a tremendous industry, a great industry. It’s tremendously important industry from the standpoint of jobs and we’re energy independent. We have to make sure we keep it that way. All right, please.
<37:10>
Didn’t know anything about that. That was done by the FDA. Very capable people at the FDA.
<37:28>
I don’t blame them, they can push back if they want. We’re not happy with 3M. We’re not happy, and the people that dealt with it directly are not at all happy with 3M. We’ll see whether or not we do. I heard what he had to say today. I don’t know the gentleman, but we’re not happy with 3M. Go ahead.
<37:45>
I don’t know. But every time you asked that question, whenever he’s not here, you look, you say, “Where is he?” And you’ll say, “Is there a problem?” No problem whatsoever. Every time he’s not here. Sometimes I’ll ask him to come because that’s the first question that you and a couple of others from the Fake News Establishment ask is, “Where’s Dr. Fauci?” We’re doing great together. We’re covering a different subject today. Go ahead.
<38:43>
Well, I always knew that pandemics are one of the worst things could happen. There’s been nothing like this since probably 1917, that was the big one in Europe. It started actually here and went to Europe, probably. I’ve heard about… Excuse me. Wait a minute. Let me finish. I’ve heard about this for a long time. Pandemics. You don’t want pandemics. I don’t think he was talking about a specific pandemic, he was talking about the threat of a pandemic could happen and it could happen. Most people thought it wouldn’t, and most people didn’t understand the severity of it. This is very severe. What’s happened is very severe, but I’d let you answer that. I assume that he was talking about the concept of a pandemic.
<40:43>
Previous administrations gave us very little ammunition for the military and very little shelf space. Let me just tell you. You know it. You know the answer. The previous administration, the shelves were empty. The shelves were empty. So what you should do is speak to the people from the previous administration, Jim, and ask them that question because the shelves were empty. You know what else? The military shelves were also empty. We had no ammunition, literally, and that was said by one of your favorite generals. Sir, we have no ammunition. Guess what? We had very little medical supply also. All right. Go ahead. We’ll get it back. We’ll get you back. We’ll get you back, please.
<41:28>
Jim, I said we’ll get you back. Please go ahead.
<41:37>
It covers everything.
<41:39>
But if somebody ordered, if Italy, if Spain who has big problems, these are countries with tremendous problems. France, if they ordered, if they have long-term orders and they’re in there and they want to get certain things, I’ve let them go out in certain instances because I think it’s only fair. They have problems that are proportionately or relatively bigger than our problems. So if they ordered something and they’re waiting for, as an example, masks made here and going to Italy, I’m not going to be stopping that. I think it would be very unfair.
<42:09>
By the way, speaking about being fair and unfair, two very big cruise liners, as you know, I allowed them to dock today. We worked with the governor of Florida, as you know, Ron DeSantis, and we worked on it, and we had tremendous security. We took the sick people, and we’re working with them. We have doctors. We have great doctors, military doctors. From a humane standpoint, not that we’re in love with this, these are two massive ships, but we have to take care of people. We have to take care of them.
<42:40>
We sent many back to Canada. The Canadians came and worked very closely with us as did the UK. We had a lot of people from the UK, and we took care of the Americans. We took care of the sick. We had some people very sick. I think we had three to four, maybe five people that had died on the boat, one of the boats actually, and we had to take care of these people. So we could have let them float aimlessly into the ocean looking for port as they’ve been doing for a long time, and I made the decision we had to take them in. Homeland Security and a lot of other people did a great job, but we had to help people. These are people that were very, very sick. Some were dying. Some died. Please. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead.
<43:35>
No, I’m not concerned. No. I had a test yesterday.
<43:41>
I don’t know. I mean, I heard from the oil executives. These are people, most of them had not had the test, and frankly I think they left the room feeling good about a lot of things, but they felt good about the test. This was a test that took, I guess, 13 minutes to have it finalized. They took the test. I don’t know. I didn’t know they were doing that. Maybe they did it just for them. I don’t know. But it seems that a lot of people, because now we have tests that really work well. Abbott, in this case Abbott. We have other tests being developed right now that are also fantastic. The original tests, the ones we inherited, Jim, as an example, they were broken. They were obsolete. They were not good tests, and that’s what we got stuck with. We’ve developed some incredible tests, but this took 13 to 15 minutes, and they were all fine. Go ahead. Finish your question.
<44:44>
Well, I address it in the following manner. We really are very well supplied. We are not the principal. It’s the hospitals, the states, the cities, they’re supposed to get everything they can and stock up in case something like this happens. But nobody could ever have assumed that something like this happened. So we started supplying. We brought tremendous amounts to New York today and over the last few days. We brought them to Louisiana. We brought them to Michigan. We brought them to Los Angeles. A lot of equipment.
<45:16>
You’ve read the amount of masks that we had. I think I said over 8 million masks. The n95 masks, the more expensive, more complicated, better, whatever masks, the ones they want to use in the hospitals, we have millions of them now. We’ve given them to a lot. We sent to Bellevue in New York today. That was from Mayor de Blasio? 200,000 of them, but we have 8.1 million.
<45:45>
We’re going to have more than that and we’re getting them from various sources, including the military. We’re rapidly then replacing them because we have to replace them in case there’s another emergency. Gowns too. We have many gowns being delivered and have been delivered. Our people have done an incredible job. Most people have said, and I said this yesterday, governors have said thank you very much. Great job. If they’re a Democrat governor, in some cases, not in all cases at all.
<46:14>
If I said, “Here’s 1000 ventilators. How many do you want?” “We want 1000.” “Here’s 1000. You got them. But you know what we’re going to do? We’re going to add another 5,000. Is that good?” They said, “Wow, that’s great.” Then if Jim Acosta goes and says, “Are you happy with the president?” “No, he should have given us 10,000.” That’s what’s happening. You know why? Because that’s a standard political answer, and that’s a shame because we have done a job like nobody’s ever done a job. But we’ve just delivered a lot of masks. We’ve just delivered a lot of gowns and protective gear. But you’re talking about a massive number. But as of this morning, people were very, very happy. Steve?
<46:56>
No, they didn’t ask for a bailout, no.
<47:01>
It was really more of a discussion than asking. We did discuss the concept of tariffs because, as you know, this was a dispute among a couple of countries that I think they want to be able to get it solved. They had a dispute. They had a competition, but they want to get it resolved. Russia and Saudi Arabia, I think they want to get it-
<47:24>
Yeah, I think they want to get it resolved. I think they’re working very hard. I mean, they told me they want to get it resolved. They’re working very hard. Go ahead.
<47:44>
What are you asking?
<47:47>
What’s that? A got you? I got you. You used the word our.
<47:50>
Our, you know what our means? United States of America. That’s what it means.
<47:55>
Our. Our. It means the United States of America. Then we take that our, and we distribute it to the states. Not that we have to-
<48:06>
Because we need it for the government, and we need it for the federal government. But when the states are in-
<48:12>
No to also keep-
<48:16>
To keep for our country because the federal government needs it too, not just the states. But out of that, we oftentimes choose. As an example, we have almost 10,000 ventilators, and we are ready to rock with those ventilators. We’re going to bring them to various areas of the country that need them. But when he says our, he’s talking about our country. He’s talking-
<48:37>
Excuse me. He’s talking about the federal government. I mean, it’s such a basic, simple question, and you try and make it sound so bad.
<48:46>
You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
<48:48>
You know what? You ought to be ashamed. It’s such a simple question. He said our, and our means for the country and our means <crosstalk 00:48:58> for the states because the states are part of the country. Don’t make it sound bad. Don’t make it sound bad. Go ahead, Steve. Go ahead. Back here.
<49:07>
You just asked your question. You just asked your question in a very nasty tone. Let’s go.
<49:14>
Please.
<49:15>
I gave you a perfect answer. You know it. Go ahead.
<49:28>
Sure, but it’s also needed for the federal government. We have a federal stockpile, and they have state stockpiles, and frankly they were, many of the states were totally unprepared for this. So we had to go into the federal stockpile, but we’re not an ordering clerk. They have to have for themselves. Now some of the states were in good shape. Some of the states were not in good shape. That’s probably something you could expect.
<49:51>
We have been helping states. We have been spending a tremendous amount of time, effort and billions and billions of dollars on making sure that they have what they have. I mean, take New York. We built them hospitals. I built them four hospitals, built them medical centers, sent a ship with 1,000 rooms and 12 operating rooms. Then on top of that gave vast numbers of ventilators and vast numbers of surgical gowns, equipment, masks, everything else.
<50:19>
Now they had a chance to order ventilators over the years. They had a chance to order very big, but they didn’t choose to do it. We were there, and we helped them, and I think the governor of New York is very thankful for the help that we gave. But we have a stockpile. It’s a federal stockpile. We can use that for states, or we can use it for ourselves. We do use it for the federal government. We have a very big federal government. Go ahead.
<50:50>
We’re not a traffic cop. We’re a humanitarian cop. We help. It’s like the ships. Do you think we wanted to take two big ships into our country that have obvious problems? You know the problems I’m talking about. So I have a decision to make. Do I take them in, or do I save lives? Okay? Do I take them in, or do I save? I decided to take them in.
<51:13>
We have tremendous protection. We have great doctors there to help the people. They had four or five people that died. That was as of last night. They died on the ships. We took care of it. Now the people are in the process of, and many are already back in Canada. They’re back in the UK, United Kingdom, and many of them were American citizens. Some were very sick. We’re taking care of the sick people. We’re testing all of the others very, very carefully, very, very carefully. They are being tested like you wouldn’t believe, and we solve a humanitarian catastrophe. You know why? Because nobody else would take the ships. Nobody else would take them. So we docked them in, I think, Fort Lauderdale.
<52:06>
We do say that. We say, and we use the act. Excuse me. We do say that, and we use the act. We’ve used it a number of times very powerfully, and a lot of times we don’t have to use it because we say we’re going to use it if you don’t do this or that. Then we also have companies that act incredibly well. We have plenty of them, mostly them, but we’ve used the act very powerfully. A lot of times you don’t have to exercise the act. All you have to do is tell them, “Look, if you don’t do this, we’re going to use the act.” We’ve done a good job with it. Maybe a great job. Yeah.
<52:48>
No. Me sign? No. There’s millions of checks. I’m going to sign them? No. It’s a Trump administration initiative, but do I want to sign them? No. The people are getting their money. There’s a lot of stimulus going in a lot of different ways. There’s also a stimulus going for companies that, if it weren’t for our government, would not and some companies that were very strong a month ago.
<53:11>
Again, we had the strongest economy in the world. We had our best ever. We had probably the best economy in the history of the world, bigger than China, bigger than anybody, and one day we have to say, close it up, stop. Everybody, go home. You know what? It’s pretty tough to do that.
<53:35>
I don’t know. All I can tell you is that small business today is that we’re way ahead of schedule. There is a problem, which I pointed out, I said you shouldn’t do it this way, with unemployment, where 40 year old equipment by the states. We’re sending the money to the states. Once the money is sent to the states, then the states, whether they’re Republican or Democrat, have to get the money out to the people. Hopefully they will be able to do it. But many of those states have 40 year old computers. I don’t know that they’re equipped. I wanted to give the money direct if that’s what you’re talking about. I wanted to give the money out direct. It Would have been much easier. But the Democrats and some people said, no, let’s do it the complicated way.
<54:17>
All right. Excuse me. I was talking about both. They’ll get it. They will. Go ahead please.
<59:08>
It is going to go away.
<59:13>
I didn’t say a day. I said it’s going away, and it is going away. Okay. Are you … Okay. That was a good answer to your question. No, no, no, no, no, no more. That was a long but a very good answer. That was enough for you.
<59:34>
Yeah, we’re going to do that.
<59:41>
We will be talking about that at a different time. Yeah, please go ahead.
<59:57>
That’s up to Dr. Birx. You will decide.
<01:00:08>
I’m sure they’ll talk to you about that, and Dr. Fauci, too. Please. Go ahead.
<01:01:50>
No, they should’ve had more ventilators at the time. They should have had more ventilators. They were totally under-serviced. We are trying to do, we’re doing our best for New York. We have states. We have a lot of states. We have territory’s too, but we have a lot of states that have to be taken care of, some much more so than others. We’ve worked very well with the governor. We happen to think that he’s well-served with ventilators. We’re going to find out, but we have other states to take care of. We have a big problem in Louisiana. We have a big problem in Michigan.
<01:02:24>
We have a big problem and seven other really strong hotspots, but we’re doing the best we can. I wish they did the original orders three years ago. They would’ve had all the ventilators they needed, although even then they wouldn’t. Because if you look at what the original request was from New York, it was far greater than anybody ever heard and we’ve supplied a lot. I told you we supplied some just today to New York and we supplied some yesterday to New York City. Did you have one in the back? Yeah, please.
<01:02:59>
I don’t think that was the question.
<01:03:13>
No, he didn’t misspeak.
<01:03:15>
He used the word, our. Okay. Our. Our is referring to our country …
<01:03:20>
The states, to the best of my knowledge and to the best of your knowledge, are a part of our country. We are taking what is in the federal stockpile and we are helping states all over the country, but we also want to keep some because when that surge comes, when you hit those peaks, we’re going to need, we have to be able to have the flexibility to take those ventilators and bring them to Louisiana, New York, Detroit, different places. That’s all.
<01:03:46>
Of course, we’re not using them anywhere else. We’re not going to be using them, John, anywhere else. But we want the flexibility because we don’t even know when the surge is coming but it’s coming soon and it’s going to be big and some areas won’t have it. Some areas will be pleasantly surprised just like we’ve been, you look at the chart. States that I thought would have been maybe a disaster turned out to be really, they’d done a great job. Some states are really trouble, but you don’t know. You don’t know. We have great flexibility.
<01:04:14>
I would have preferred giving them all out. We’d have nothing and now when we have a surge we can’t get them back from where we gave them because it’s very tough to take it back. So we have tremendous flexibility and it could be New York, it could be Louisiana. Those are two that are really rough. New Jersey is very rough and they’ve done a very good job in New Jersey. But New Jersey is very rough. Go ahead, please.
<01:04:40>
The guidelines relative to which? The masks?
<01:04:56>
I just don’t use them.
<01:04:58>
They’re not mandatory guidelines. They’re guidelines. They suggest you could wear them, don’t have to wear them. In fact, the director is here. If you want to say a couple of words about it, you can if you want. You don’t have to. But basically it’s a voluntary thing. Say it directly. Doing a good job.
<01:06:41>
And I was just tested also, so I assume I don’t have the virus so I don’t have to worry about spreading it. Okay. Please go ahead.
<01:06:58>
I’m always considering. Look, tariffs have made a tremendous amount of money for our country. I put them on China, I put them on other places and other countries tariff us and they take advantage of us or they have for many years. Look, countries have taken advantage of the United States for years. They’ve ripped us off like nobody can even believe, whether it be on manufacturing, whether it be on exporting, whether it be on almost anything, including military where we provide virtually free military assistance to countries that frankly take advantage of us. Don’t even like us.
<01:07:33>
Okay. So this has been going on for years. They terrify us, they create artificial, you could say nonfinancial barriers, which are worse than financial barriers. You can’t sell your product. You can’t take care of our farmers. They won’t take our and yet they’ll take us and sell into us and we won’t charge them anything for doing it. Look, they’ve taken advantage of us for years. Tariffs are a way of evening the score. Tariffs are a way of just neutralizing. They have tariffs on us and we now can put tariffs on them. Am I using it for oil? It’s something we can. No.
<01:08:10>
Am I doing it now? No. Am I thinking about imposing it as of this moment? No. But if we’re not treated fairly, it’s certainly a tool in the toolbox.
<01:08:24>
It would be the same thing. No. It would be the same thing. They are having a dispute, the two countries, and it’s hurting the rest of the world because it’s really hurting the energy industry. Russia’s being hurt unbelievably badly and Saudi Arabia is being hurt unbelievably badly because oil and gas is a primary, that’s where they get most of their income. And this is a price like from the 1950s. Right? It’s a price from the 1950s. They are being hurt very badly. I think they’re going to settle their dispute pretty quickly. Go ahead, please.
<01:09:11>
Well, they haven’t production. That’s what they’ve done. They’ve increased it so much that they’re, so you meant the opposite.
<01:09:18>
Look, well, they’re going to stop because the market. Ultimately, the market is going to get them to stop, but they both did the opposite. They increased production to a level that water is right now more valuable than oil. Who would have ever thought? You go to some of these kingdoms, water is far more valuable than oil. There’s so much oil. It’s a tribute in a way. But what happened is there was a lot to start off with and then you had the virus and it knocked the hell out of the market in terms of demand. So there is no demand and this tremendous supply.
<01:09:56>
So, I mean you saw our numbers where it was down to 20 and down frankly below 20. It was even below 20. It’s an incredible thing, the market, but ultimately the marketplace will take care of it. But I think they’re going to work out their problem fairly quickly. Okay. Go ahead.
<01:10:29>
I’d talk. If it were important to talk to her, I’d talk to her. If it were important for the American people, I’d talk to her. But other than that, I can have other people talking to her. Look, you ready? Infrastructure is a great thing for me. I think infrastructure for this country, we have an old broken infrastructure. 50 years ago, we were the envy of the world and then we spent all this money so stupidly in the Middle East. We spent, it’s going to be very close to $8 trillion in the Middle East. How stupid was that decision? But they spent it on that and other things.
<01:11:03>
We’ve got to fix our infrastructure. That means roads, highways, tunnels, airports, everything. We got to fix our infrastructure. And the beauty is because of the fact that we are so strong as a country, we’re borrowing at zero. We never had a chance to borrow at zero. Even this country, we never had a chance to borrow at zero. We’re going to borrow. This is a great time so we can fix our infrastructure and we’ll have almost no interest because this is the time to do it. Steve, one more question.
<01:11:38>
Which one? I have many trajectories for many things.
<01:11:47>
Say it, Steve. What?
<01:11:50>
On what?
<01:11:54>
I’d have to ask Dr. Fauci, and I’d have to ask Deborah. Have the models changed?
<01:13:34>
The models show hundreds of thousands of people are going to die. You know what I want to do? I want to come away under the models. If professionals did the models, I was never involved in a model, but…at least this is kind of a model…but you know what, hundreds of thousands of people they say are going to die, I want much less than that. I want none. But it’s too late for that, but I want very few people relative to what the models are saying. Those are projections. I hope they’re wrong. I hope we’re going to be under those projections.
<01:14:10>
How come you always have two? Why can’t you have one?
<01:14:13>
Every time, I have three questions. I have two questions. Can you give me one instead because there are a couple of other people? Go ahead.
<01:14:38>
The general election will happen on November 3rd. In Wisconsin, what happened is I, through social media, put out a very strong endorsement of a Republican conservative judge who’s an excellent, brilliant judge. He’s a justice. And I hear what happened is his poll numbers went through the roof and because of that, I think they delayed the election.
<01:15:04>
I don’t know. Why didn’t he do it before? He’s doing the right before the election.
<01:15:08>
Excuse me. Why didn’t he do this two weeks ago? All of a sudden, excuse me. All of a sudden, an election which is taking place very soon, gets delayed now. I just endorsed him today and it was a very strong endorsement. His polls, he’s gone very high up and all of a sudden the governor comes out, the Democrat governor, by the way, comes out and says, oh, we’re going to move this election. So I don’t know. I hope you’re right. I hope you’re right.
<01:15:39>
No. I think a lot of people cheat with mail in voting. I think people should vote with ID, voter ID. I think voter ID is very important and the reason they don’t want voter ID is because they intend to cheat. When you get something, when you buy something, you look at your cards and credit cards and different cards. You have your picture and many of them, not all of them, but on many of them, you should have a picture on your for voting. It should be called voter ID. They should have that and it shouldn’t be mail in, excuse me. It shouldn’t be mail in voting.
<01:16:11>
It should be you go to a booth and you proudly display yourself. You don’t send it in the mail where people pick up. All sorts of bad things can happen by the time they sign that, if they sign that, if they sign that, by the time it gets in and it’s tabulated. No, it shouldn’t be mailed in. You should vote at the booth and you should have voter ID. Because when you have voter ID, that’s the real deal. Thank you very much. We’ll see you tomorrow.
