<01:22>
Thank you very much. A lot of things going on and we’re going to be going over the Hill and there were a lot of meetings and from the financial, this is a medical situation, not a financial situation. Financial though is moving along very nicely. I want to thank you for being here and update you on the progress we’ve made after a week of extraordinary mobilization in our war against the virus. Governors, mayors, the businesses, charities and citizens are all working with urgency and speed toward one common goal, which is saving American lives. We’re in communication with foreign countries. It’s now at 148 foreign countries. Can you believe that? 100. You talk about a spread. You talk about a violent spread, 148 countries, not even believable. There’s been a week of national action and of great national solidarity. People are getting along. We’re getting along with the Republicans and Democrats and Independents and liberals and conservatives and actually it’s a very nice thing to say.
<02:39>
We’re all one beautiful big American family and that’s taking place right now. Last night I approved major disaster declaration for the state of New York, worked very closely with Governor Cuomo and this is the first time in our nation’s history that a President’s used the Stafford Act to a major disaster in response to a public health crisis. Never happened before. I’m considering other areas where we may or may not be doing that and I’m working very closely with Gavin Newsom, governor of California and others. We may be doing the same thing depending on their needs, depending on what they’re asking for. It’s been unprecedented action in New York and we’ve had a tremendous federal response all over the country and I want to thank all the people in the federal government and obviously in the state governments and local governments. We are working hard, everybody is working hard and the people standing alongside of me are working very hard that I can tell you.
<03:49>
We’ve also reached agreements with Canada and Mexico on new travel rules at our Northern and Southern borders to halt the entry of the Chinese virus. Well continuing trade and commerce and we’ve had very good talks. I’ve with Prime minister Trudeau and today this morning with President Lopez Obrador. We talked about joint measures that we’re taking to prevent the spread of the virus in our countries and to temporarily suspend non essential travel. We had a great conversation this morning, President of Mexico and our close cooperation with Mexico and Canada will keep our people healthy, keep their people healthy, keep everybody safe. Yesterday I had a call with 12,000 small businesses, representatives of these businesses. That’s the engine of our country. People don’t realize that, you read all about the big ones, but the small business, when you add them up together is really the engine economic engine of our country, and I assured them that my administration is doing everything within, it’s very considerable, considerable power, frankly, to support them and their employees.
<05:04>
Nobody’s ever done what we’ve done. Likewise, I had calls during the week with all sorts of representatives and systems like the hospital system. We spoke to many of the hospital systems throughout the country, nurses and doctors, representatives representing hundreds of thousands of nurses and doctors. Airlines and cruise ship companies, the business round table, which was fully attended and it’s all of the top CEOs of our country and beyond, frankly. The businessmen have really, these are world world styled businessmen. These are businessmen that control the biggest companies in the world. Many of them have taken hits and many of them are just going forward.
<05:52>
I’ll tell you, businesses have been, have been great. Some have been very badly affected, some haven’t been affected at all and frankly, some are doing very well. They continue to do very well. It’s a, Walmart i an example. It’s been really helpful to us. Doug McMillan, the head of Walmart really helpful to us and I guess I assume they’re doing pretty well cause people are certainly buying, buying more than even a clip at Christmas by substantial numbers. Pretty amazing, but they’re doing incredibly, they put on tremendous extra staff. You don’t have empty shelves. A lot of things have happened that are very good.
<06:29>
Restaurants, fast food executives, grocery stores, all retailers. Literally all of them in groups. And we spoke with the G7 leaders at length. As you know, you probably know about that. Spoke to many of the governors, spoke to almost all of the governors, had conference calls and many of the governors individually. And very importantly the religious leaders. We had a great conversation yesterday, the Vice-President and myself with the religious leaders of our country, many of the religious leaders and we’ve had a number of them during the course of the last two weeks actually, but yesterday we had a very, very significant call with the religious leaders of our country.
<07:14>
I signed legislation providing American workers with paid sick leave and paid family medical leave at no cost to employers. And free testing for those who need it. The testing’s going very well and the Admiral will speak to that along with Tony. We’re working quickly to pass additional legislation that will provide massive relief to small businesses and affected industries and give direct payments to our great workers and hardworking American families. There’s never been anything like we’re doing on the Hill right now. Their negotiating, Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer, they’re all up there. Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi, they’re all negotiating and everybody’s working hard and they want to get to a solution that’s the right solution. I think we’re getting very close. We’ve also announced that we’ve moved tax day from April 15th to July 15th which is a big deal giving businesses and individuals extra time to file and pay without interest or penalty.
<08:19>
So we’ve moved the date way back and so it’ll be July 15th instead of your traditional April 15th and very importantly you will have a lot of time but you’re not going to have interest penalties or any kind of penalties by filing. At that later date, HUD announced that foreclosures and evictions are suspended for single family home owners with FHA insured mortgages for the next 60 days. And our great head of HUD, who’s with us today, Ben Carson’s going to say a few words in a moment. The Department of Education will not enforce standardized testing, which is another big deal requirements for students in elementary through high school for the current school year. Not fair to do that. So we were waiving that. I would imagine it’s probably the first time ever that’s been waived, but I think it’s only fair to the students and to the parents of the students.
<09:18>
It is also waiving interest and other things that we’re discussing right now on federally held student loans and directed that borrowers be allowed to suspend their student loan payments without penalty for at least 60 days. And we’ll be talking about student loans, going to help the students. They’re under a great burden right now so we will be talking about that further. But we’re waiving during this 60 day period various elements and very important elements on student loans. Big subject. I signed an executive order invoking the Defense Production Act, as you all know, giving us powerful new authorities to help states, cities, and hospitals procure needed supplies.
<10:02>
There’s been a clear call to action to the private sector and the call is made right here. It’s been really pretty amazing what’s happened with the private sector. They are really in a sixth gear I think, which has responded in full force helping to produce and supply much needed masks, swabs, sanitizers, ventilators, and everything else is a, there’s a move on that’s incredible right now. And by way of example, Hanes, everybody knows Hanes, great company, great consumer cotton products company is retrofitting its manufacturing capabilities in large sections of their plants to produce masks. And they’re in that process right now. And at my direction, the FDA has taken rapid steps to make these items available for medical use right now. I mean most excitingly to me is what the FDA has done in order to get a possibly a very successful number. It’s not just one or two number of therapeutics, medicines that can help people that are already sick, help people not get sick. And obviously you know about the vaccine and Tony, we’ll discuss that a little bit later, but the vaccine is moving along.
<11:26>
But this is something that right now for right now, like this is what we really, it’s incredible. And what the FDA has done, and Dr. Steven Hahn, who’s highly respected, came as a, just a highly respected man. He’s been fantastic. He’s only been here for a couple of months and he’s gotten thrown into the swim of it and he’s really standing up. But the FDA has really moved mountains. I said it this morning they moved mountains to get approvals on things that maybe work we’ll find out very soon, it won’t take along.
<11:58>
Along an example of the <inaudible 00: 12:02>, which is a, this is really an example where we’re purposing alcohol. They went out and repurposed their alcohol production capabilities in Arkansas, Kentucky, Texas, and West Virginia to make hand sanitizer. That’s a big difference and they’d been unbelievable. They really, <inaudible 00:12:22>, their first delivery will be on Tuesday. It’s going to go to various states. They’re going to start, I think in New York and they’re going to work their way around. They’re making a tremendous amount of hand sanitizer at a very high level too, by the way.
<12:42>
We’ve activated the National Response Coordination Center to level one, that’s your highest level. There’s the nerve center of all of our government response to crisis and it’s coordinating very closely with our nation’s governors. Our nation’s governors, as many of you were at the call yesterday with the governors and I think you can see the relationship. And we’ve had numerous calls with governors by the way, but the relationships are pretty amazing. They’re loving what we’re doing and the coordination between the federal government and the governors States and even local has been pretty incredible. FEMA administrator, Pete Gaynor, who is with us will soon be providing you with an update on the center’s operations and FEMA has been incredible. We got them involved last week, very much involved and now they’re involved nationwide.
<13:37>
We’ve dramatically expanded telehealth so Americans can see a doctor without leaving home something which more and more people are using and now they’re really using it. And now the ones that are using it are loving it. And I think we’re going to change the way our country functions medically and probably in other ways because of what’s going on right now. This will reduce the chance of infection and preserve hospital capacity. So it solves a lot of problems.
<14:05>
Every American has a role to play in defending our nation from this invisible, horrible enemy. It really is. It’s an invisible enemy and we will be successful, very successful, hopefully very much sooner than people would even think. So we say stay at home and save lives. There’s a time of shared national sacrifice, but it’s also a time to treasure our loved ones and to take stock of what is most important, our faith, our families, our neighbors, and our great country. And I want to thank all of the incredible people of our country, the citizens of our country, that what you’ve done and the way you’re responding has just been a very special, something that we will never forget, that the history books will never forget. And we’re going to have a great victory. We’re going to be celebrating a great victory in the not too distant future.
<15:04>
And I just want to thank everybody and now I’ll introduce our vice president Mike Pence, who’s led the task force. And I will tell you this, he has not slept much, maybe a tiny bit, maybe a little bit, but not much. And he’s done an incredible job. Mike, thank you. Please.
<24:30>
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Admiral.
<28:35>
Thank you very much, Admiral. Dr. Fauci.
<32:15>
Thank you, Tony, very much.
<35:07>
Thank you very much, Pete, appreciate it. Ben, please.
<39:32>
Ben, thank you very much. A few questions, please.
<39:51>
I just took one.
<39:54>
I feel great. I hope I look good. Those people are going to be. <crosstalk 00:40:01>.
<40:11>
Well, what they do right now is keep receiving their paycheck and hopefully their companies are going to be in a very strong position. We want to keep everything together because we think we’re going to have a tremendous bounce back. Now, some people agree with that very strongly. Some of our top economists, they think we’re going to have a very, once we solve the problem of that we’re working on, the medical problem. So we want them to keep their jobs, stay where you are and we’ll see what happens. Now if they don’t, we have unemployment, we have checks, we have a lot of things happening, a lot of very positive things nobody has ever done. Now this is working with Democrats, this is Republicans and Democrats and myself working together. Nobody’s ever done a package like this. It’s a great package. But ideally we want them to be able to keep their jabs, keep the pay coming. And I think that’s going to happen. Kelly, go ahead.
<41:24>
Because we have so many companies making so many products. Every product that you mentioned plus ventilators and everything else. We have car companies without having to use the act. If we don’t have to use specifically, we have the act to use in case we need it, but we have so many things being made right now by so many they’ve just stepped up. In fact, Mike Pence and I were discussing it before. We’ve never seen anything like it where they are volunteering. We want to make masks who are not, like Hanes. I brought that up as an example. General Motors, I bring that up as another, Ford. They’re going to go on the open market. We want them on the open market from the standpoint of pricing because otherwise it’s going to be, we could be very unfairly <crosstalk 00:00:42:03>.
<42:06>
We are directing states and sometimes we’ll be competing against states, which I don’t want and we’ll drop out of the bidding. We want the states to go first and you know what we’re doing is we’re helping states. That’s what we want to do. Same thing with the testing. We’re helping states, we’re helping states get to where they want and we’ve made tremendous progress in every aspect of it.
<42:27>
Well, it’s happening pretty fast right now and the governors are out there trying to get and if they are competing with us, we immediately drop out. Please.
<42:44>
My people are and I’ll be staying here. I’ll be in the Oval Office and various other places in the White House.
<43:10>
So I’ve spoken with, I’m not going to say who I speak with, but I’ve spoken with directly or indirectly everybody many, many times. We’re doing very well. I think the Democrats and the Republicans are going to come up with a package that’s going to be really something very special. It’s going to help people. This is the first time there’s ever been a case where you want people not to work. It’s always, you want to create an incentive to work. We’re creating not an incentive not to work, but the fact is we’re asking people not to work because of they have to stay away from each other. If we’re going to kill this horrible hidden enemy, we have to stay away. So there’s never been a thing like this in the history of the world. And other nations are doing similar things, some effectively, some not effectively. They’re doing similar things.
<43:58>
We are creating a package that’s going to keep companies together, keep workers paid so they can live and sustain. We’ll see what the timing is. The biggest thing we can do is get rid of the problem. The problem is exactly what we know, the medical problem. We want to have this whole incredible situation that it can start right away. Not that all of these companies break up, all the workers are out of jobs. You can’t put them back together and it would take years to put them back together because we had the greatest economy in the history of the world until we got hit by this problem. And we can be back very, very quickly. And it’s our intention to be back very, very quickly.
<44:35>
So we’re doing a package the likes of which nobody’s ever done before. I’m obviously the one that has to approve the different things and the recommendations of the different things. And like buybacks as an example and stock buy backs. I didn’t like it the first time and this time I’m saying, “You’re not doing it.” I don’t want money to be used for that. I want money to be used for workers and for opening businesses, keeping businesses not buy backs. And well, I would, I am strongly recommending a buyback exclusion. You cannot buy back your stock. You can’t take $1 billion of the money and just buy back your stock and increase the value. Please.
<48:13>
When will the masks start coming in?
<48:19>
Switch it.
<48:41>
We have a lot of them, a lot have already come in. I have to tell you, the throwing away of the mask being in private business, the throwing away the mask right away, they’re thrown away. And when you hear 55 million masks, what I’m saying, 55 million, how could it possibly be such a number? And they say, “Oh, that’s just a small fraction of what we need.” And I said, “Why aren’t we sanitizing masks?” You look at the mask, I’ve looked at all the different masks. Some don’t lend themselves to doing that, I think, but many do. And I said, “Why aren’t we …” We have very good liquids for doing this, sanitizing the masks. And that’s something they’re starting to do more and more. They’re sanitizing the masks and I don’t know if anybody who would like to speak to that.
<49:25>
You might want to just …
<50:12>
I would’ve liked that much better personally. Yeah, go ahead, Mike.
<51:48>
You mean the ones that are saying good things or bad things?
<52:20>
Well, I’ll tell you the way I look at it. So many administrations proceeded me. For the most part, they did very little in terms of what you’re talking about. This is unprecedented. You could speak to Tony, you could speak to anybody. This is unprecedented or just about unprecedented. As time goes by, we’re seeing it’s really at a level that nobody would’ve believed. Nobody would have thought possible that this could happen and we are making much of this stuff now and much of it’s being delivered now.
<52:51>
We’ve also gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people that can’t believe how fast it’s coming. When I hear they have an order of 55 million masks and that’s just one order, that’s one order at our many and that there are many millions of masks beyond that that are … and I keep saying, “How is it possible to use so much?” But that’s the way it is. And part of that is because they’ll use a mask for a short period of time and they throw it.
<53:17>
The fact is that we are doing a tremendous amount. We started with very few masks. We had some, but nothing for an event like this, and now we’re making tens of millions of masks and other things and I think it’s unprecedented what we’ve done and what we’re doing and many doctors that I’ve read, many, many doctors, they can’t believe the great job that we’ve done.
<53:39>
Yah, Kelly, did you have one?
<53:47>
Well, if you remember …
<53:49>
I was the one that closed the country down. I was the one that closed the … You don’t write that or you don’t say it too much. Certainly on CNN, but I just read an article yesterday. I just read an article yesterday that by closing the country down so early, very early, we saved tens of thousands and much more than that lives. So you might want to report that too.
<55:52>
Tony?
<56:53>
And again, what we’re doing is we’re trying to help the states get things faster and that’s what we’re doing. We’re implementing. And the magnitude of this, it’s a tragedy. It’s an absolute tragedy, but the magnitude is something that no matter who you were, no matter where you come from, nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. You read about 1917 and you read about certain things, but you think in a modern age, I thing like that could never happen.
<57:19>
Well it comes back, it is genius. It comes back and it’s too bad. But I think the people working on this have been incredible. The job they’ve done has really been incredible. But there’s tremendous amounts of not only masks, of ventilators and respirators and everything you can think of. It’s all being much of it and almost, I could say all of it is being manufactured right now. Steve, please.
<57:49>
Well, I don’t know that resolved. I can say that it’s going to distributed. I know New York is getting I think 10,000 units and numerous other people. It’s really, it could be the malaria drug plus the Z-Pak. But, and we’re going to find out, we’re going to find out. I feel as the expression goes, what do we have to lose? Because I feel very good about it. Tony would feel, like he’d like samples done in a certain way and I understand that, too. Many doctors agree with that. We don’t have much time.
<58:27>
We have a lot of very sick people right now in hospitals all over the place and speaking with the governor in New York, Cuomo, I said, “How’s it look?” He’s got a lot of sick people, so we’re going to be delivering a lot of samples to New York and other places and we’re going to find out very shortly whether or not it’s going to work. I feel very confident. I’ve seen things that surprise me frankly.
<58:52>
There are, as Tony said, there are other things we’re looking at too. Vaccine of course is incredible, but this is more immediate. Right now, this to me would be the greatest thing that could happen. This would be a gift from heaven. This would be a gift from God if it works. So we’re going to pray to God that it does work. It’d be a fantastic thing.
<59:15>
Yeah, in the back.
<59:23>
My businesses? Sure.
<59:26>
Well, I wouldn’t say you’re thriving when you decide to close down your hotels and your businesses. No, I would say, I’m very under levered and everything, so that’s good. But is it hurting my … yeah. It’s hurting me and it’s hurting Hilton and it’s hurting all of the great hotel chains all over the world. It’s hurting everybody. I mean, there are very few businesses that are doing well now. There are some that are like as an example, the Walmarts of the world because everybody’s lined up to get things and stock up their house and this and that. But sure, it hurts my business.
<01:00:04>
No, I didn’t speak to anybody. I speak to my sons, but I talk about the coronavirus, but not as it pertains to my business. They basically follow the rules. When they say close them down in New York, we close them down or wherever they may be having. I actually have them all over the world and when they say, close them down, we close them down.
<01:00:23>
What Kelly?
<01:00:25>
Well, I have nothing planned at Mar-a-Lago. But right now I think Mar-a-Lago, I guess I haven’t even asked, but I imagine that’s closed down just like a lot of other businesses in Florida. Right?
<01:00:37>
Go ahead.
<01:00:42>
I don’t know. I just don’t know what the government assistance would be for what I have. I have hotels. Everybody knew I had hotels when I got elected. They knew I was a successful person when I got elected. So it’s one of those things, I guess I get paid $450,000 a year. I give it up, I put it back into the nation. I usually, I have to, by the way, you have to designate where you want it. So I oftentimes give it to opioid research and things.
<01:01:13>
But as far as the hotels and everything, I have to do what everyone else is doing. I would probably decide to close things up. I think it’s a good thing. You don’t want people getting together and hotels and clubs and everything. You get together. We want to beat this deal. So I have many of them, hotels, clubs, things like that where people get together. I would think it would be a good practice to close them up.
<01:01:37>
Yeah, go ahead, please.
<01:01:51>
Well, I do it. I do it. I have temperature tests and I didn’t ask everybody here, but I wouldn’t be surprised if they had temperature tests. Otherwise, I’m going to run off the stage.
<01:02:06>
Oh, I think they are pretty much. The easiest thing is the temperature. I think they are. I don’t know. Are you learning a lot from the temperature tests, Tony? Could you maybe discuss that for a second?
<01:02:29>
I took his temperature.
<01:02:46>
And I’ve seen things when Tony mentions thermometers. They aim something at your forehead. They say this far away, boom, and they tell you what your temperature is. I said, “I’ve never seen that before.” I’ve learned a lot. I’ve learned a lot. It’s incredible. Go ahead in the back, the back corner.
<01:03:19>
Well, I love whoever you’re with that’s because I think that’s such a nice, that’s such a nice question. No, I think the Washington Post covers us very inaccurately. Covers me very inaccurately. I saw this story. I think it’s a disgrace, but it’s the Washington Post and I guess we have to live with it. It’s a very, it’s a very inaccurate, quiet, quiet. It’s a very inaccurate story. From many people, I get a lot of credit for having closed our country very early to a very heavily infected country, China. Unfortunately, China, I wish China would have told us more about what was going on in China long prior to us reading about it. Even though the news isn’t exactly disseminated. As you know, China kicked the Washington Post out of China and they kicked the New York Times out of China and I guess the Wall Street Journal.
<01:04:09>
That’s okay. I mean that’s what they do and I think it’s a terrible thing they did. But I also think it’s terrible when people write inaccurately about you and they write inaccurately about me every single day, every single hour. And by the way, your group really, I really think, and I just say fair, not good or bad, I think you write very fairly and do very fair reports about the great job that all of us are doing. That this group behind me is doing. It’s so insulting when they write phony stories that they know are fake news because they’re not insulting me. They’re insulting everybody. These incredible people that have worked so hard, so long that are thinking about nothing other than this invisible enemy. They have done such an incredible job. And they will continue and we’re going to win and there’ll be a lot of celebration when we win and we’re going to win with as few lives lost as possible.
<01:05:01>
That’s the game. Win with as few lives lost as possible. It’s a tough enemy. It’s a tough killer, far bigger, far more vicious than ever before. But I appreciate you saying it because the fact that we closed so early to China and most people …Hey look, I was called xenophobic by sleepy Joe Biden. I was called a racist by Democrats. A racist. I was a racist because I decided that I didn’t want to have people that could hurt our country come in, and I was pretty much in a very small group of people. I will tell you, it was a tiny little group. Most people even that worked in the White House disagreed with me very strongly.
<01:05:42>
Saving of those many weeks was a tremendous thing and where they keep talking about acting early, that was the ultimate act. That was the biggest act because we didn’t, and then I also closed Europe early, very early and I took a lot of heat for that too, but that was a good thing. Now they’re doing similar things that we’re doing. So I didn’t act late. I acted early. I acted far before anybody thought I should be. I took tremendous criticism from the various papers, from many of the papers. So I very much appreciate the question.
<01:06:14>
It might’ve been more of a statement that a question. But whatever it may have been, I appreciate it very much.
<01:06:30>
No. No. They can do what they want to do. If California can get a mask sooner than we can get it for them through all of the things we’re able to do and we we’re going to end up with a big oversupply at some point. At some point this is going away and we’re going to end up with a big oversupply and you know what, in this case that’s going to be okay.
<01:06:49>
But if California, if Gavin can go out and order gowns faster or masks, good masks faster or other things faster, that’s good. We do have a lot of … The coordination with the ships that we’re sending in, as you know, the medical ships that we’re sending in and even cruise liners. We’re going to be sending in probably cruise liners into some areas in particular California and in particular New York. But if somebody can do something faster, if they can order that mask faster than us, I want them to be able to do it.
<01:07:24>
We coordinate very much with them. Yes.
<01:07:28>
Well, it doesn’t have to be at this moment because we have places in the country where, states where they have two people, or three people and those people are in quarantine and you can’t put on them what you’re putting in New York where you do have a tremendous problem. We have large portions of the country, middle America where they have a few people. So it may be a time, I hope that never happens where we need to take very drastic action. But right now that’s not in the same ballpark. Yeah, go ahead, please.
<01:08:00>
Yes.
<01:08:05>
I think they are, and some people are not. But, I think they are. I think it’s going to have a very profound effect. We’ll know a little bit more on day 14 and 15 and we’ll see.
<01:08:16>
Well we’re going to see. We have to see what the result is. We want to flatten that out and we’re going to see what the result is. And I just want to say, I’m going to negotiate a very large transaction and I’ve been negotiating it for two days. So I’m going to take one or two more questions and then I’m going to leave it to Vice President Pence.
<01:08:34>
On the Hill, with the Hill, the various elements of the package. Steve, go ahead.
<01:08:43>
No, no I haven’t. Look, we understand the difficulty of that and he’s a very good friend of mine. You take a look at Shinzo Abe. He’s a great gentleman. He loves his country. We have an incredible relationship. We just finished a trade deal with them, $40 billion trade deal with Japan.
<01:09:03>
We just finished a trade deal with them, 40 billion dollar trade deal with Japan, and Prime Minister Abe has a big decision to make. They have built one of the most beautiful venues I’ve ever seen. They’re all ready to go. It’s not late. It’s not over budget. It was just done flawlessly, and it’s beautiful, and they’re sitting back and saying … I told them. I said “That’s your decision.” And it is his decision, and I know he’s going to make it soon. I don’t know what it’s going to be, and I didn’t think I should be influencing it at all.
<01:09:31>
I mean, the job that Japan has done on that venue is incredible. So there are options, obviously, including delay, and maybe delay for next year, but that’s totally up to them. We’ll see what they do.
<01:09:52>
When I learned I started doing the closing, so probably around that time. We didn’t learn much. I think you’re going to ask a little bit about China responsibility. I do think that, again, I have great respect for China. I like China. I think the people of China are incredible. I have a tremendous relationship with President Xi. I wish they could’ve told us earlier about what was going on inside. We didn’t know about it until it started coming out publicly, but I wish they could’ve told us earlier about it, because we could’ve come up with a solution.
<01:10:25>
Tony Fauci, and all of the people, the talent that we have would’ve loved to of had three or four months of additional time if you knew that this was going to be happening.
<01:10:37>
They didn’t have that time. They read about it in the newspapers like everybody else. China was very secretive. Okay? Very, very secretive. And that’s unfortunate. With that, I have great respect for that country. I have great respect for the leader of that country, and like him. He’s a friend of mine. But I wish they would’ve told us earlier, Steve, that they were having a problem, because they were having a big problem, and they knew it.
<01:11:04>
And I wish they could’ve given us an advanced warning, because we could’ve had a lot of things, as an example, some of the things that we’re talking about where we order them as quickly as we can. If we had a two or three month difference in time it would’ve been much better.
<01:11:19>
Yeah, please.
<01:11:20>
Yeah.
<01:11:43>
Because it’s true.
<01:11:44>
Because it’s true. China has worked very hard. China has lost thousands and thousands of people.
<01:11:51>
No. They weren’t transparent. They were transparent at that time. But when we saw what happened they could’ve been transparent much earlier than they were.
<01:11:59>
Just so you understand. China’s not a beneficiary here. China has lost thousands and thousands of people. China has gone through hell over this. They’ve gone through hell. And I’ve had conversations with President Xi. I just wish they could’ve told us earlier. They knew they had a problem earlier. I wish they could’ve said that.
<01:12:20>
Thank you.
<01:12:27>
I’m going to leave that up to Dr. Fauci and everybody else, and I think the answer is we want to share them. I would imagine we want to share the numbers. Admiral, do you want to discuss that?
<01:12:38>
Half a billion, no, not billion.
<01:12:40>
Yes.
<01:12:41>
I said, wait a minute.
<01:12:51>
There’s never been numbers like this. A ventilator is a machine. It’s a very complex machine and to think that we have to order hundreds of thousands nobody’s every heard of a thing like this. We had thousands in a stockpile. Thousands ready to go. That’s a lot. All of a sudden you need hundreds of thousands. The mask is … Whether it’s plastic, or whether it’s material, that’s one thing, but you’re talking about a very sophisticated heavily computerized machine, and delicate, and you need hundreds of thousands of them. Nobody’s ever heard of a thing like that.
<01:13:28>
With that being said General Motors, Ford, so many companies … I had three calls yesterday directly. Without having to institute like “You will do this” these companies are making them right now. But to think of these numbers it’s pretty mind-boggling.
<01:13:47>
Michael, please.
<01:17:34>
You understand it. You understand it.
<01:17:38>
You’re an intelligent woman, Kelly. You understand exactly what he’s saying, and what he’s saying is rather incredible, because we inherited an obsolete broken system, and when you hear the number of tests that we’ll be providing, and are now, it’s incredible. I’ve heard a lot of governors say the same thing. We took over an obsolete broken testing system that wouldn’t of worked for even a small problem let alone one of the biggest pandemics in history.
<01:18:01>
And what these gentleman have done is incredible. I am going now to negotiate a great deal for our workers and our citizens. I’ll be back tomorrow. We’re probably doing this tomorrow, and if I might I’d like to ask Vice President Pence to take over, and thank you all very much.
