<01:17:46>
And that’s what we’re doing. That’s what we’re here for to do that and to talk about. We just came out with a new listing on testing. We just cracked 10 million tests, which is here. I thought you’d like to show that to everybody, 10 million. We set an all time record by far. If you look down here, these are other countries that have not done anywhere near what we’re doing.
<01:18:08>
We double. If you add them up and double them, we’ve done more tests, but I can’t get the press to print that unfortunately, they just don’t want to print it, but I want to thank the governors for being here very much. We appreciate it. We’re going to have some good fruitful talks about going even to the next step and I know you’re trying to open up and I know you’re opening up.
<01:18:31>
You’re sort of more than trying. You’re opening up and you’re both do an excellent job and it’s an honor to have you at the White House very much and these two gentlemen have done a fantastic job. And David, from interior and David’s very much involved with the states and how are they doing David? What do you think?
<01:18:49>
I think so. They’re doing a good job. They really are. They’re doing a good job. We’re talking about Space Force and a lot of the States are interested in Space Force and we’re talking to some of them and I know that Colorado is very interested in it. And so we’ll be talking to you about that too. Okay. We might mention that today a little bit during our meeting. So thank you all very much. Thank you.
<01:19:22>
I think they should open the schools, absolutely. I think they should and it’s had very little impact on young people and I think that if you’re an instructor, if you’re a teacher, a professor, and you’re over a certain age, let’s say 65, or maybe even if you want to be conservative 60, perhaps you want to stay out for a little while longer, but I think you should absolutely open the schools.
<01:19:45>
Our country is got to get back and it’s got to get back as soon as possible and I don’t consider our country coming back if the schools are closed and it’s had very little, very unusual situation, it’s had very little impact on young people and I would strongly say they should open. It’s up to the governors. It’s the governor’s choice, but the state is not open if the schools aren’t open, so again, it’s had very little impact on young people and I think they should open their schools.
<01:20:24>
Well, I respect Lindsey Graham and I’ll certainly look at the bill to sanction China, so I’ll certainly take a look at it. I have not seen it yet.
<01:20:34>
Well the unmasking, it’s a massive thing. I just got a list, who can believe a thing like this and I watched Biden yesterday on Good Morning America being interviewed by one of your colleagues, George Stephanopoulos, and he said he knew nothing about anything. He has no idea. He knows nothing about anything, nothing at all.
<01:20:59>
Then it gets released today that he was a big unmasker, so how do you know nothing if you’re one of the unmaskers? It’s one of the very big stories and I suspect you’ll have, if it’s possible, even bigger stories coming out.
<01:21:25>
Look, Afghanistan, we’ve been there for many years, we’re like a police force, we’re not fighting in Afghanistan. We’re a police force in Afghanistan and at some point they’re going to have to be able to take care of their country. They’re going to have to be able to police their country, but we’re not meant to be a police force. We’re meant to be fighters and we’ve been there for a long time, so I don’t know.
<01:21:44>
Well have to see it. I have not heard that. In Kabul, we’ve had some, I understand some pretty big blow ups, but again, you count on the government to be able to police themselves and they’re having a hard time, I suspect. But again, we are the greatest fighting force in the world. We’re not a police force that’s going to stay around and police the streets and check out the red lights and traffic.
<01:22:11>
It’s not what we’re supposed to be doing. Been there a long time. You know, our forces down quite a bit, as you know, we’re way down and a lot of people have come back, brought them back, but the government has to be able at some point to do something for themselves.
<01:22:47>
Well, I’m a believer in negative rates, only if other countries that are competitors. Like Germany, they’re an ally, they’re friends of ours, but they’re still competitors on trade and other things. So Germany, Japan, others have negative rates and I think if they do, we’re the most prime of the world. It’s based in many countries, based on the dollar, the dollar is by far the strongest, most powerful currency in the world.
<01:23:11>
We’ve made it more powerful. We’ve made it stronger and certainly if they’re going to have the advantage of negative rates, we should too. I feel strongly we should have negative rates. Negative rates is basically where they pay you interest if you borrow money, this is a new one. I’ve been looking for something like that all my life. That’s a pretty good one, but certainly if other countries are going to be paid for putting out money.
<01:23:34>
I mean, think of it, they’re borrowing money and instead of paying interest, they’re getting paid. It’s the craziest thing, but you know what other countries are doing it. Look at Germany, look at Japan, look at others and we’re the most prime in the world right now and we have the currency and we have the power of the dollar. I know that the chairman has… And he’s done a very good job over the last couple of months. I have to tell you that because I’ve been critical, but in many ways, I call him my MIP. Do you know what I…
<01:24:03>
But in many ways I call him my MIP. Do you know what an MIP is? Most improved player. It’s called the most improved player award. Did you ever get one of them when you were playing baseball, Corey? Good baseball player?
<01:24:14>
The chairman, he’s my MIP right now for the last few months. I think he’s done a very good job. I disagree with him on one thing now. That’s negative rates and only because we’re paying zero. Good news with this money, you’re talking about other stimulus. We’re paying zero. We’re down to zero interest. That’s good, but some countries and some states rather, and some also countries you look at. But we are paying, right now, zero and other countries are paying less than that if you can believe it. They’re receiving money and I think we should be in the exact same situations.
<01:24:56>
And by the way, states are getting tremendous deals in borrowing. So a lot of the states that are coming to the federal government, they can go out and they can borrow. They’re getting phenomenal rates. Some of our states is what I’m talking about. They’re getting phenomenal borrowing rates.
<01:25:16>
I don’t know. It depends. It’s certainly not the package that I saw today. Basically, if you look at that package, what they want more than anything else is it’s a voting package. They want to be able to make sure that Republicans can’t win an election by putting in all sorts of mailing ballots. Now, I don’t know if you do because the press doesn’t report this too much, but we had two very big victories last night. We won very big. Tom Tiffany won very big in the great state of Wisconsin.
<01:25:45>
You saw that. That was last night it came in. That was a big one. You saw that Doug. Won by a very, very substantial margin. In California of all places, we had a fantastic race and this was all mail in ballots. This was all a mailed ballots. When they saw because it was mail, they saw they were losing three days ago and they ended up putting polling booths in, into basically Democrat areas. But despite that, it’s looking like Mike Garcia … I don’t know if they’ve called the race yet, but he was substantially ahead. That’s the problem with mail in ballots. Are they going to dump a whole pile of ballots on your desk just before the election? So the problem with the mail in ballots, it’s subject to tremendous corruption, tremendous corruption, cheating. So I’m against it. If you look at the bill that Nancy Pelosi is putting in, has a lot to do with elections. We’re not going to lose elections because of that.
<01:26:45>
I do think you should mention the fact that the Republicans won two major congressional seats last night. I think it’s really worthy of mentioning.
<01:27:01>
Let’s finish with your question.
<01:27:06>
Well, as they say DOA, right? DOA, dead on arrival. Of course, Nancy Pelosi knows that, obviously.
<01:27:30>
I was just with General Millie and some other generals. I asked them about General Flynn. Do you know him? They said, “Yes, sir. I’ve known him for 20 years.” What do you think? “He’s an incredible man, an incredible soldier. He’s an incredible general.” This is General Millie, head of the joint chiefs of staff, four-star. He’s done fantastically. He thinks General Flynn is a great, great gentleman and a real fighter. When I see what is happening to him, it’s disgraceful and it was all a ruse. By the way, the FBI said he didn’t lie. The FBI said he did not lie. So with all this stuff I’m hearing about lying, the FBI said he didn’t lie. But the sleazebag said, “Well, we don’t care what they say. We’re saying he lied.” Okay, but the FBI, you remember when they left, they said he didn’t lie.
<01:28:29>
What they’ve done to that man and that family is a disgrace, but I just tell you that because I just left General Millie. He said, “A great man and a great soldier.”
<01:28:41>
I won’t talk about that, but he’s going to be okay. He’s going to be just fine.
<01:28:45>
I’m very, very saddened by what’s happening to General Flynn and others. I want to tell you right now and others. Please.
<01:29:00>
About reopening what?
<01:29:06>
Look, he wants to play all sides of the equation. I think we’re going to have a tremendous fourth quarter. I think we’re going to have a transitional third quarter. I think we’re going to have a phenomenal next year. I feel that we are going to have a country that’s ready to absolutely have one of its best years. Next year, with all of the stimulus and all of the fact that it’s a pent up demand like I haven’t seen. You see it right now. These two really professional, good governors that work so hard. I know both of them very well. One happens to be a Democrat, but we’ve worked together and I think we’ve worked together very well. One, you would expect me to say that, but it happens to be true. Really good job too. But we’ve worked very, very well together. They want to get their states open. Some governors and some perhaps partisans, maybe for election reasons, don’t want to have their states open. Then some shouldn’t open them quite yet. They’re not ready. They went through a lot and they’re not quite ready, but no we’re opening our country. People want it open. The schools are going to be open. I was seeing the other day, Purdue is a great school, great college university.
<01:30:24>
Purdue is opening and others are opening, and they’re all announcing it. These are young people. These are students, young students. They’re in great shape. They’re in great shape. Now when you have an incident, one out of a million, one out of 500, that well something happen perhaps. You can be driving to school and some bad things can happen too. So no, we’re going to open our country. We want it open.
<01:30:54>
I was surprised by his answer actually, because it’s just to me, it’s not an acceptable answer. Especially when it comes to schools. The only thing that would be acceptable as I said, is professors, teachers, et cetera, over a certain age. I think they ought to take it easy for another few weeks, five weeks, four weeks. Who knows whatever it may be. But I think they have to be careful because this is a disease that attacks age. It attacks health. If you have a heart problem, if you have diabetes, if you’re a certain age, it’s certainly much more dangerous. But with the young children and students, it’s really … just take a look at the statistics. It’s pretty amazing.
<01:31:49>
If anythings done, I will do that. These are the new testing numbers. So you saw that, but I was just showing this to a group of people. I said we’re now over 10 million tests or we will be very shortly, like within a couple of days. Look at that test. This is us. This is the rest of the world. We have more tests and we have better tests. We have more tests and we have better tests. We’re going to have your football team in, your championship football team. <inaudible 01:32:20> Tell us a little bit about the team. First of all, you know they won the championship and we’re all set to have them. What happened is the plague came in. Because of the plague, came in from China. Because of the plague, we didn’t have those great people, but we’ll do a rain check. But seriously, even if it’s in a few months, we’ll do a rain check. Tell them about the team because it was a tremendous season.
<01:33:05>
So I watched the game on television, the championship game. I didn’t know too much about it. I don’t get to watch too much of the television football games. I’m saying, “Man, that team is really good.” They were really good. Then I got a call from <inaudible 01:33:18> and I get a call from John. I get a call from our other very friendly Senator, the three of them. They said, “Do you think we could possibly honor the team?” Because we honor the national champion. My question was, “How would your team do against the national champions?” They were pretty good, LSU this year, right? Not a bad quarterback. How do you think? I don’t know. You think, okay, right?
<01:33:48>
That’s pretty good.
<01:33:54>
Had a good start.
<01:33:58>
Let the team know we’re going to do a rain check.
<01:34:02>
Yeah.
<01:34:08>
Well, we’ll go after them very seriously. If there’s any companies that got loans that they weren’t entitled to, we’ll go after them very soon. They’ll have big problems.
<01:34:25>
I hope they will. You have a situation where a president has to be able to focus on this. When you’re doing an audit … In the old days, no president gave tax returns. A while ago, I mean, no president gave tax returns. But when you’re under audit, who would want to give them? It’s a very big thing, but it would also take time. Ultimately, people are going to be getting returns. They’re going to see that. But I think it went very well yesterday. I have great respect for the Supreme Court. I think the lawyers put out a very strong case. From what I’ve read, it was a very strong case. Yeah, please.
<01:35:16>
Well, it’s an interesting question. I haven’t seen Mike Pence and I miss him, but he was in the room with somebody that tested positive. He did not test positive. He tested the opposite. He’s in good shape. But I guess we said for a little while, we’ll stay apart because you don’t know what happens with this very crazy and horrible disease. But we speak a lot on the phone, but I’m in the White House. Mike is at his office, but he’s pretty much away from people. He’s doing a great job. He’s done a great job I think you’d say on the task force. He really has. I think you’ve pretty much gotten everything you wanted and we try and get it to you quickly.
<01:36:06>
We work very well together with Republican governors and with Democrat governors. When are you thinking of opening and explain what you’re going to do <inaudible 01:36:16>
<01:36:38>
It looks good.
<01:36:42>
Not bad. Not bad.
<01:37:06>
How about because I go there, as you know. The ski slopes are fantastic. There are those that say the greatest anywhere. How are you doing with the skiing? It’s a big business for you.
<01:37:23>
That’s very true. I’ve heard that.
<01:37:45>
You also did a lot of a summer business and springtime business. What are you doing with that?
<01:38:25>
I heard that.
<01:38:27>
Now there’s people coming because everyone goes, everyone coming in. How has that been? How is the level of infection right now?
<01:39:17>
Corey you’re working together very much I know with the governor and everybody else.
<01:39:44>
We’re still over here.
<01:39:45>
And we’re getting them very quickly.
<01:40:19>
And you have good healthcare in that state.
<01:41:00>
How did they do? How did those restaurants do with the take out?
<01:41:13>
That’s good. That’s good.
<01:41:19>
Good job.
<01:41:25>
That’s a great test. That’s a new and a great test. So Doug, how about North Dakota? How you doing?
<01:42:03>
Great. And you’re using different tests, all different and you’re in good shape with the testing. What test are you using?
<01:42:30>
That’s fantastic.
<01:42:41>
So what do you attribute? What do you attribute that to?
<01:42:46>
Being a good governor.
<01:43:11>
Oh wow. That’s fantastic.
<01:43:16>
That’s great.
<01:43:23>
That’s fantastic.
<01:43:48>
And your oil prices are going up a little bit now. So that you’re 26, $27 a barrel. Pretty soon you’ll up to the number that you have to be up to. That’s the big difference.
<01:44:13>
Great job. John, what do you have to say about the state and the job the governor and everybody else has done? I know it well.
<01:45:01>
Yes.
<01:45:10>
We’re sending them billions of dollars of money that we took in from a country that targeted them. Last year, we gave them 16 billion. The year before, we gave them 12 billion. No other president would have done that, I can tell you.
<01:45:38>
She is.
<01:45:41>
That’s great. Michelle, do you have anything to say?
<01:45:56>
That’s so good.
<01:46:23>
That’s fantastic.
<01:46:25>
You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. Just to finish off, go ahead.
<01:47:12>
Well, thank you very much. Terrific job too.
<01:47:45>
They’ve had a lot of difficulty in the different tribes, haven’t they? A lot of difficulty. Tremendous difficulty.
<01:47:52>
David, you’ve done a great job. Do you feel comfortable with all those cameras right behind your head?
<01:48:26>
So you getting those parks open, right?
<01:48:29>
I hope everybody’s listening. The parks are opening and rapidly actually.
<01:48:34>
And with those governors. You want the help for the governors.
<01:48:51>
So in all cases, you’re working with governors and opening up-
<01:48:55>
That’s good.
<01:48:56>
That’s great. Great job. Thank you.
<01:48:58>
Thank you very much, everybody. <crosstalk 01:49:07>
<01:49:08>
They have great confidence and they have great confidence in us. They have great confidence in the airlines. We’ve saved the airlines with $25 billion and another $25 billion. We have airlines that are now in good shape. Obviously, they’re going to pick up with the fares and with the seats, but the airline industry is in good shape. We’ve been able to save the airline industry, which would have been devastating if that happened. So they’re in good shape. Thank you very much.
