<01:16:41>
Thank you Mr vice president. Just to follow up and underscore what Dr Birx had said. As I’ve said many times from this podium, the spectrum of going from infection to getting ill to requiring hospitalization to intensive care to death, and what is the most striking thing that obviously is so sobering to us is when we see the number of deaths. We know now for sure that the mitigation that we have been doing is having a positive effect but you don’t see it until weeks later. Remember, this past weekend when we all of us got up in front of this podium and mentioned that this was going to be a really bad week. At the same time, we were saying that we would hope we would start to see a little bit of a change in the daily hospitalizations, intensive care and intubations and New York is starting to see that. So, I say that but I draw back a bit. Don’t get complacent about that because what’s going to happen two and a half weeks from now is really what’s going to happen with regard to the people who are getting new infection.
<01:17:45>
As Dr. Birx said, everybody is almost certainly as susceptible as anybody else to getting infected. It’s what happens to you after you get infected and again, to just keep emphasizing, we need to keep mitigating. We know that this is something that is a strain on the American public, but it’s just something that we have not only the only tool, it’s the best tool. And to just shift a bit to what we said yesterday regarding the African American community, it is very painful to see, and I’ve seen it throughout my entire medical career, that the health disparities in the minority community, but particularly the African American community, puts them at risk apart from coronavirus issues. Puts them at risk for diseases much more so than the general population.
<01:18:38>
The double whammy that you suffer now is when you have this terrible virus which essentially prays in its ultimate deleterious effects on people with those underlying conditions. And since that is more predominant in the African American population, we want to double down and say to the young people, to the elderly people in that community to please try as best as you can to protect yourself, if you’re a younger person, and to please protect the people who are susceptible. Your grandmother, your grandfather, your elder uncle, the people who have these underlying conditions, because we are not going to solve the issues of health disparities this month or next month. This is something we should commit ourselves for years to do. But what we can do now today is to prevent people who are put at higher risk, because of the demographic group, from getting into a situation which is much more deleterious than the general population.
<01:19:43>
So, I plead with all of us in the population, but particularly for those of us, our brothers and sisters in the African American community, because we know that mitigation does work. The reason we know it works is the question that was asked about the numbers, that why they came down with the projections, because remember what you do with data will always outstrip a model. You redo your models depending upon your data, and our data is telling us that mitigation is working. So again, as Dr. Birx said, keep your foot on the accelerator because that’s what’s going to get us through this.
