<43:43>
Thank you Mr. Vice-president. I want to make a few comments here. First I want to talk a little bit about CDC has developed multiple systems to monitor disease outbreaks. I think many of you are familiar for example, how we monitor for foodborne illness or how we monitor for antibiotic resistance in hospitals. Well, we’ve also developed a system to monitor for upper respiratory tract disease. If I can get the first slide there. This is an example because when we talk about what we know about this current pandemic, the reality is we know a lot because we’ve developed these monitoring systems. Up on the slide is a system that we’ve developed initially for flu and what it does as you can see there’s a multiple different flu seasons and they track them over the course of a year. I want you to look at the red line and that happens to be this year’s respiratory season.
<44:44>
And you see there is a peak there up over the 50, 52 week and that peak was when we actually had a peak of influenza B. This year was a little different because after that viral syndrome came down and you can see it that actually we had another peak and that’s when influenza A was active through our country. And you can see influenza A started to drop, but then you saw a third peak. That peak was you were looking at the coronavirus 19 so we had systems all the way down to the County level that we can see where there’s respiratory tract illness. And so it’s not just just taking a test it’s monitoring these systems that have been developed over the last over decades. And we have multiple ones, we have another one this that is monitored in emergency rooms looking at syndrome diagnosis and they show the same thing.
<45:47>
So we’re well equipped to monitor to see when respiratory track viral disease will come and becomes a very good surrogate for when you can begin to understand that we need to start looking more ideologically about what’s going on. You can see now in week 15 we’re really coming down to the baseline background in terms of our flu surveillance system from the overall coronavirus situation right now. The second thing I wanted to say is that CDC continues to enhance the state’s public health capacity to accelerate their ability as Tony talked about. It’s critical as we open America again to diagnose individuals that present with influenza like illness or coronavirus like illness, to diagnose them to be able to isolate them and to be able to contact trace around them and then diagnose the contacts and those that are coronavirus positive to go back and do their contacts.
<46:56>
This is the traditional public health approach, which was started in this outbreak in January and February and was quite successful when as I mentioned before, through February 27th this country only had 14 cases. We did that isolation and that contact tracing and it was very successful, but then when the virus more exploded got beyond the public health capacity. But right now CDC is enhancing that public health capacity.
<47:25>
And if I can get the second slide, I want to show you that this is just showing as we sit here today, that CDC has embedded in these health departments and all of these states across this country more than 500 individuals. We also have an additional almost a hundred individuals that are working on more than 20 coronavirus outbreaks that are going through all these states. And finally at the direction of the president, we’ve been asked to further enhance this deployment in each of the states as the vice president said, so that there’s additional public health personnel to help accelerate the state’s ability to basically move forward aggressively and we assist them so they can operationalize the president’s guidelines to open up America again. So I just wanted to make those points for you today.
