<52:10>
There are a large group of people who are asymptomatic, who have never presented for any test. In order to have the kind of numbers that were predicted, to get to 60 million people infected or have six million people infected, you have to have a large group of asymptomatics. Because in no country to date have we seen an attack rate over one in a thousand. So either we’re only measuring the tip of the iceberg of the symptomatic cases, and underneath it are a large group of people. So we’re working very hard to get that antibody test because that’s a good way to figure out who are all these people under here and do they exist? Or we have the transmission completely wrong. So these are the things we’re looking at because the predictions of the models don’t match the reality on the ground in either China, South Korea or Italy. We are about five times the size of Italy.
<53:11>
So if we were Italy and you did all those divisions, Italy should have close to 400,000 deaths. They’re not close to achieving that. So these are the kinds of things we’re trying to understand. Models are models. We’re adapting now to the react… There’s enough data now of the real experience with the coronavirus on the ground to really make these predictions much more sound. So when people start talking about 20% of a population getting infected, it’s very scary. But we don’t have data that matches that based on the experience. And then finally, the situation about ventilators, we were reassured in meeting with our colleagues in New York that there are still ICU beds remaining, and there’s still significant, over a 1,000 or 2,000 ventilators, that have not been utilized yet.
<54:03>
Please, for the reassurance of people around the world, to wake up this morning and look at people talking about creating DNR situations, do not resuscitate situations for patients. There is no situation in the United States right now that warrants that kind of discussion. You can be thinking about it in a hospital. Certainly many hospitals talk about this on a daily basis, but to say that to the American people… to make the implication that when they need a hospital bed, it’s not going to be there, or when they need that ventilator, it’s not going to be there. We don’t have an evidence of that right now, and it’s our job collectively to assure the American people that… it’s our collective job to make sure that doesn’t happen.
<54:51>
Right now, you can see these cases are concentrated in highly urban areas. There are other parts of the states that have lots of ventilators and other parts of New York state that don’t have any infections right now, so we can be creative, we can meet the need by being responsive, but there is no model right now… I mean, no reality on the ground where we can see that 60 to 70% of Americans are going to get infected in the next eight to 12 weeks. I just want to be clear about that.
<55:22>
So, we’re adapting to the reality on the ground. We’re looking at the models of how they can inform, but we also are learning very clearly from South Korea and from Italy and from Spain. Just a final, because I know many of you will look up my numbers… the only people who are over really one in a thousand cases are people that have very small populations like Monaco and Lichtenstein, so you will see a different number coming from when your population is really tiny; one case can put you over one to a thousand or two to a thousand. Thank you.
<01:01:56>
I think this is a very important concept and it’s why we’ve really worked on messaging to the American people about these 15 days to stop the spread, because part of this will be the need to have highly responsible behavior between counties, and I think the American people can understand that, that they will understand where the virus is, because we’ll have the testing data and where it isn’t, and make sure that they’re taking appropriate precautions as they move in and out of spaces. I think this will be critical for our future as we work together to really understand where the virus is and where it isn’t in real time.
<01:02:59>
So, we’re talking to CDC right now. They are extraordinary in outbreaks and contact tracing. So, they are going to be the workforce behind any new strategy that looks at counties that need to completely move into containment and surveillance and contact tracing. But part of what they’re looking at now is, where are these antibody assays? To be clear, there is antibody assays available right now, but they’re by ELISA. And what we’re trying to do is not just do ELISAs, because they can use that now, but to be able to have point-of-care rapid diagnostics like we have with HIV, where you just get a drop of blood, you put it on a little cassette, and it tells you if you’re positive or negative. So, that’s what companies are working on.
<01:03:44>
Yes, correct. That’s the IgG to measure. Now remember, that’s not going to be helpful in diagnosis. That’s going to be helpful for us to know how many asymptomatic cases there are, or were.
<01:03:58>
It is a big question. It is a very big question, and so, we have people… the FDA is working on that around the clock. They do have applications that are coming in. We put out a call for applications. I’ve been talking about it from this podium. If you have an IgG assay rapid test, not an ELISA… I mean, you could do the ELISA today because the SARS… the original SARS antigens react very well to the current COVID-19 antibodies that people have. But we’re really working on that, both so that we could have therapeutics that could be plasma-derived, so thank you. Yes, we’re very much focused on that.
<01:04:47>
Well, there are states, and I just want to really recognize state and local health officials that, behind all of this, have continued to test and have continued to do surveillance. So, we do have states that have been doing surveillance all along, who have been doing contact tracing all along. It never gets reported because it’s not that exciting that they’ve identified 10 cases, but there are states doing that and have been doing it throughout this entire outbreak, and that’s why we have some confidence that that testing has been going on. We have to expand testing for surveillance.
<01:05:23>
But this is that… we talked about it a little bit yesterday, the flu platform? So the flu platform is driven off of emergency rooms and hospitals reporting flu-like illness to their state and local governments, and that, then, will trigger the individuals to get tested. So we have a platform that states and local governments are completely used to. They’re not used to doing it this late in the season. They’ll do it usually through the end of March, but flu usually tails off a lot by April. So, we’re asking them to continue the activation of screening for flu-like illness.
<01:06:01>
Now, that doesn’t get to his question about, where is the asymptomatics and how much of that? That helps us find cases and contact trace on systematic cases.
<01:06:21>
So these are very early days of us trying to… what we’re trying to do is to utilize a laser- focused approach rather than a generic, horizontal approach. And I think in the 21st century, we should be able to get to that. Why am I confident that we can do that? Because we do that in Sub-Saharan Africa right now for HIV. That’s how we’re stopping the epidemic there. So we’ve done it; we’ve done it in resource-limited settings. So I do believe we can transpose that approach here to the United States and be able to have… we have granular data down to a GPS coordinate of a site of a clinic and hospital. We think that same thing can be done in the United States.
<01:07:17>
These are dialogues that the federal government has to have with state and local governments, because state and local governments make those decisions, and that’s what’s been inspirational to me, is seeing how much the governors understand where they are in their epidemic and what they will need to do in the future.
<01:07:33>
This is what we’re trying to tailor. It requires us to have very clear data disaggregation at the county and state level. But I think you’ve been hearing from us, these outbreaks and clusters, we’ve been able to very well define, to date… the one that was in King County, the one that is now in New York City, the one in New Orleans, the one in Wayne County… and we can see that spread throughout the region and as closely-related counties. So this is what we’re talking about, how to do surveillance, how to do contact tracing, and how to do each of these items to make sure that you prevent that spread.
<01:08:17>
Well, we have to get all of our data together. We owe it to the President, and we owe it to the President to be able to make that decision. So that’s what we’re working on right now, is getting that granularity.
