<07:48>
Thank you Mr. President. Appreciate the opportunity to tell you about what’s happening at the FDA. We have a team of more than 18,000 employees including 10,000 scientists, doctors, pharmacists and nurses. And they’ve been working around the clock because as you probably know, many of the medical products that are being used for the COVID-19 outbreak are in fact regulated by FDA. The staff have been hard at work authorizing tests and other medical products.
<08:16>
As part of these efforts to support diagnostic test development during this global pandemic, the president has asked us and under the leadership to actually cut down as many barriers as we possibly could to get medical products into the medical community and we have done that, of course recognizing the urgency of the situation. I do want to emphasize what the president said that is that we are very much paying attention to safety and with respect to test validity and reliability of those tests.
<08:44>
And I think it’s really important to understand how far we’ve come in just a few short months. The academic community, which I come from, the private sector, the government, we’ve come together to develop diagnostics for completely new infectious disease. And it’s really important, we’ve heard from many test developers, both in academia and in the manufacturing world, this normally takes years to develop. You’ve heard Dr. Burks talk about the fact that HIV tests have taken many, many years to develop. This has happened in weeks and months. We’ve been laser focused on working with both industry and academia to actually make this happen.
<09:21>
To date, under our emergency use authorization approach, we’ve quickly reviewed and authorized 63 tests, both diagnostic as well as serologic. That is the antibody test. We’ve had several point of care tests and that’s important because those can be done in the emergency room or in a doctor’s office, et cetera, and much more convenient for the patient. And this week as the president said we authorize the first pet home test by a company called Lab Corp. This is a test where under certain circumstances with a doctor’s supervision, a test can be mailed to a patient and the patient can perform the self swab and then mail it back and get the results after that time, all under the guidance of a licensed physician.
<10:01>
And we’re not just letting up with these 63 tests we’ve approved, we are a working with more than 400 test developers who are pursuing authorization for their diagnostic under our current policies. And under our regulatory approach, which is quite flexible, many other tests are becoming available. We have heard and have reported to us 220 labs around the country have begun patient testing using their own validated tests. This has allowed us to increase significantly tests around the country.
<10:32>
I updated you earlier this week on serologic tests, these antibody tests that are used to detect natural immunity and the FDA’s approach to help make these tests available. While these are just one part of our larger response effort, they can play a role in helping move our economy forward by helping healthcare professionals identify those who have immunity to the COVID-19.
<10:53>
And just finally, when it comes to therapeutics, we are leaving no stone unturned in finding treatments for COVID-19. You do know that we don’t have any approved currently therapeutics for COVID-19, but we are actively involved with both the academic and the commercial and private sector to find those 72 trials of therapeutics are underway in the United States under FDA oversight and 211 are in the planning stages. So we expect to see more, this includes convalescent plasma as well as antiviral therapies.
<11:24>
Work continues on vaccines and two firms have announced that the FDA has authorized their trials to go forward, one of which we’ve mentioned here before. And finally in response to the presence and task force requests, we’ve stood up the coronavirus treatment acceleration program. We are leaving no stone unturned as I said, and we’re working around the clock to develop these therapeutics for the American people. Thank you very much.
<12:19>
So under our policy, we provide a flexibility. What we’ve told manufacturers is that in order to market in the US, they have to validate their tests, they have to tell us that they validated their tests and then in the package insert they have to let people know and users labs, et cetera, that those tests were not authorized by FDA. We’ve authorized four. As I mentioned, more in the pipeline. And these tests that have come in without any information to us but have been self validated, as I mentioned at the podium a couple of days ago, we are working with the national cancer Institute as well as CDC to perform our own validation of the tests that have been sent to us. So we’ll provide as much information as we possibly can. And there is transparency on our website about those tests and also the tests that we have authorized. Thank you.
