<44:30>
Hi. I’m Dr. Audrey Gregory, I am a nurse. And I’m also the Chief Executive Officer of Detroit Medical Center. Yes, so when we talk about the impact of COVID-19, I lived it, I staffed it and we went through it together. From the beginning of the pandemic, we’ve always had the focus of making sure that our patients are cared for and our staff were cared for. And so we began rapid testing and talking about partnership.
<45:04>
We were able to do this with Wayne State University. And by the way, just as a note off my scripts, we do have medical students from Meharry at Detroit Medical Center, which is a HBCU.
<45:17>
So we have done many things, we have partnered with the city, we have partnered with the state. And I think many of the steps we have taken has gotten us to the point where I’m proud to say that we’re starting to see a decline in the state of Michigan.
<45:31>
I will pause here though, Mr. President, to say, thank you. I am filled with pride and actually humbled by the fact that the President of the United States has taken time out of his day, just to stop and listen to what I have to say.
<45:48>
So where healthcare is concerned since I am representing the healthcare organizations, we’re now at the point, and Dr. Carson certainly alluded to some of the chronic underlying issues that the black community faces. And so we’re at the point now in or journey where we’re encouraging people to return to hospitals, return to the emergency rooms, because we want to make sure that the chronic issues are addressed. I would be remiss if I did not pause to say thank you to the incredible frontline workers that have just given heart, soul, muscle and sweat to make this a possibility even for us. Not just at the Detroit Medical Center, but throughout our city. The strength and their commitment and their dedication has been humbling and also inspiring. I believe with all my heart, that they’re the reason along with all our community members who have taken on this fight that we’re winning this battle. So some of the highlights, is the facts and Ja’Ron and I have talked, we’ve certainly worked through strategies for the black community, so thank you. One of the things to his point is that the pandemic has certainly just brought to light some of the disparities that have already existed. And I will say that I’m honored to be appointed to our state’s coronavirus taskforce and through that, the goal of the taskforce is really to address some of the equities and figure out in the long run what do we need to do differently?
<47:23>
And so we hope to continue this fight, Mr. President, as you know, hospitals were significantly impacted or inability to do any kind of, some of our scheduled work that has certainly impacted us. So I do want to pause though and say, thank you. We have received incredible support from your administration and not just the formal things. And so I actually left a letter for you signed by myself and the Michigan Hospital Association, just to not only thank you, but to ask you continue the work that you’re already doing, which is relief efforts across the country for healthcare organization.
<48:08>
And so we look forward to continue to work with you, but I want to add just my personal experience, but as a nurse, a mom and a hospital administrator, I’m home, it was a weekend afternoon and my phone rang and I picked it up and someone said, “This is Rear Admiral John P., you won’t get my last name, but this is who I am. I’m calling on behalf of the administration, Dr. Gregory, what do you need? My job is to help you to get what you need?”
<48:39>
Once I recovered and knew it wasn’t a spam call, it was a great relationship, not just for me, but for the hospitals in Detroit. And I think the moment that wild me, because I’m so big on follow through is that a few days later, the Rear Admiral called me and said, “Dr. Gregory, did you get what you need?” And so there is my script and then there is my personal story of engagement and what it takes to get us there. So the hospital community on their behalf, I want to thank the state and federal government for swift financial support.
<49:17>
The federal government, what all that you’ve distributed so far, we thank you. This has helped our hospitals to remotely stay somewhat liquid, but there’s a lot more work to do. And I want to thank Ford, who has worked with us. Some of our PPE have been from Ford, and then thank you for signing legislation to support healthcare facilities. Now, the ongoing support for Detroit is vital and Michigan hospitals need help to continue to ensure financial viability. But I just wanted to pause to say, thank you for being with us in this fight.
