<01:11:09>
Right.
<01:11:18>
I can’t give you a firm number on that because the dynamics of outbreaks in some respects are predictable historically. They do this and that. We don’t know because this is really unprecedented. I mean of all the outbreaks that I’ve been involved with over the last at least 36 years and then going historically back, we’ve never had a situation where the mobilization of all the different components, travel restrictions, internal containment, mitigation, financial assistance, public health assistance, testing. We don’t really know.
<01:11:52>
But the one thing I do know, I do know that if you look at models with all of their vicissitudes of models is that when you have input into the kinds of mitigations and things that we’re doing, we’re going to see a hump instead of a peak. I would be really surprised if all the things that we’re doing, and this is really a comprehensive approach. I was struck as I was listening to everyone make their presentations. I’m a scientist. I’m a health person. I’m a physician who sees patients. I look at it from one particular standpoint. But what I’m being impressed by is that this is really a comprehensive thing that has multiple components to it. All of them got to succeed if we’re going to get to that end point that I’ve described multiple times from this podium. I hope that if everyone does their job, we’re going to be able to give you a number and say, “We’ve seen that inflection and we’re coming down. I would hesitate to do it now to be honest with you because it might be misleading and I don’t want to be misleading. I just want to say one other thing because I heard Dr. Birx say it. I think we need to say it over and over again. When I was young a long time ago, I felt that I was invulnerable the way I think many of us feel we’re invulnerable. When we’re asking the young people to help us with this mitigation strategy by staying out of the bars, staying out of the restaurants, really trying to distance yourself. Don’t get the attitude, “I’m young. I’m invulnerable.” In some respects, you’re certainly less vulnerable than I am. However, what you might inadvertently do, and I know you don’t want to do that, you don’t want to put your loved ones at risk, particularly the ones who are elderly and the ones who have compromised conditions. We can’t do this without the young people cooperating. Please cooperate with us. Thank you.
<01:14:15>
That question keeps coming up. I’m not going to evade the question, but I want to make a point. We tend to think that we’re not going to be able to mitigate or contain without testing. They compliment each other in some respects, but they’re separate channels. Even if we had no testing, we should be doing what we’re doing now. The question you’re asking so I won’t evade is specifically, “Would it be important outside of a doctor, a patient coming in together of knowing what’s out there, what might be under the radar screen?”
<01:14:47>
The answer to your question is yes. Let me tell you what the CDC is doing right now. They’re going out there and part of their program is to get a feel for what is there that wasn’t initially thought to be coronavirus, that was thought to be something else. When you do that, you’re also going to get a feel of what the penetrance is in society. We are heading with the high-throughput things that you’ve been hearing about to get an answer to your question.
<01:15:25>
You know it’s possible. I know that the Governor has been really, I believe doing a really good job of trying to stay ahead of this. 45 days is not unreasonable. You have to be careful when you get a number. You own the number and then if the number doesn’t come out, you’re in trouble. That’s the reason why from our standpoint, from the federal government, we’re talking about a range. Within that range, it isn’t like you want to be correct for the sake of being correct, but you don’t want to be wed to something and then have to back off.
<01:16:16>
What’s happening, I mean if you look as a metaphor, it’s kind of like a race against the virus. If left to its own devices will do this and us trying to somehow blunt that. Now you could see the virus going up and up and your effect, your work, what you’re trying to do, may actually be having an effect. But you may not see it because it’ll still be going up. As you’re trying to implement your interference with the virus, you may not realize that you are actually interfering.
<01:16:49>
You’ll say, “Wait a minute. It’s still going up. What’s going on? You’ve done nothing.” But you don’t know whether it would do this versus that. The answer to your question, it probably would be several weeks and maybe longer before we know whether we’re having an effect. It may be at the end of the day we’ll see a curve that would have been way, way up, but I wouldn’t put us to task every few days. “Wait a minute? It’s going up. Is it working or not?” That would be really misleading if we do that.
<01:17:53>
One thing we don’t want to do is to get hung up on the difference between 10 and 25. I think you might agree with that. When we give guidelines, they’re only guidelines. We sit down. We look at the data. As Dr. Birx said, we’re data-driven. We say, “On different models, 10 looks good.” If someone wants to do 25, we’re not going to fault them. But if someone wants to come to us and ask us what we think the best is, we stand by the numbers. It isn’t perfect. It isn’t precise math. It’s assumptions and it’s data that make you get your decision.
<01:18:33>
Yes-
<01:18:34>
Of course, but this is the United States of America. There’s a lot of free enterprise there. People do their own thing. Quite frankly, I don’t think there’s a big deal difference between 10 and 25. We got many, many more important things to worry about than that difference.
