<22:18>
Thank you, Mr. President and thank you for summarizing the states and what we’re seeing. So over the last five to six days we’ve seen declines in cases across the country, and this has been very reassuring for us. At the same time, we know that mortality and the fatalities that we’re facing across the United States continue. We know the number of people who are still in the hospitals in the ICUs, and we want to continue to recognize the healthcare workers who are on the front lines and really recognize how low the United States case fatality rates are compared to other countries. And this is really due not only to our technology, but how that technology is utilized to save lives. At the same time, I’m inspired by the American people who continue social distancing. These cases continue to decline because of the strong work of the American people.
<23:14>
Also wanted to let you know that we do have nine states that have less than a thousand cases and less than 30 new cases per day, so we’re looking at states and metro areas as individual areas. We talked before how each of these curves are different. Each of the <inaudible 00:23:33> experiences are different. We have some states like California and Washington state, Oregon, they never really had a peak because of so much work that their populations did to decrease and keep the new cases down. So each of these into individual states and individual metros are being studied very specifically.
<23:55>
I do want to highlight, and we are remaining concerned and we’ve been having discussions with Rhode Island. Rhode Island and Providence are in a unique situation. First they had increasing cases from the New York City area and now they have new increase in cases from the Boston area. They are caught between two incredible hotspots in the country. They’re doing an extraordinary job. They’re caring for the individuals in the front lines, but Providence continues to have new cases and we do continue to work with specific States that have specific outbreaks related to individual occurrences.
<24:32>
I will just remind the American people again, this is a highly contagious virus. Social gatherings, coming together, is there always a chance that a asymptomatic person can spread the virus unknowingly. No one is intending to spread the virus. We know if you are sick you will stay home. But to all of you that are out there that would like to join together and just have that dinner party for 20, don’t do it yet. Continue to follow the presidential guidelines. We really appreciate the work of the American people. We see as a country we’re improving, we see as metro areas, we’re improving, we see as communities, as counties and as States we’re improving, but that also still requires everyone to continue to social distance.
<25:21>
And in the end we do have states that have very few cases and very few new cases, and so these are the ones that president is referring to that have been silent, relatively silent throughout this epidemic and pandemic that many of us have faced. And so these are the groups they’re working with very specifically and each of these governors and each of these mayors will have to make decisions after generalized guidelines are put out so that they can do what’s best for their communities. They are at the front line. And I wanted to conclude by really thanking my PEPFAR teams around the world who have been working tirelessly throughout the world to ensure that Africa and Asia doesn’t experience this level of infections that we have seen here.
<26:09>
They’ve turned over their capacities from their embassies, our US hires throughout the world, our ambassadors are still on the front line with our local staff working with ministries of how to confront this virus around the globe, and I assure you that they are continuing to invest in the health structures, the laboratory, and the front line care to ensure that all of the work that we have done against TB, HIV, and Malaria continues, but that we use our capacity, our laboratories, our clinics, our hospitals that have been built by the American people and the generosity of the American people to really combat this COVID-19 around the globe. Thank you.
