<01:21:51>
Okay. So part of the answer to your question, I think, relates to two other questions I heard. And I think it came from the back about how can you, on the one hand… I’ve said yesterday that this is really going to be a bad week. At the same time that we’re talking about the light at the end of the tunnel. It seems to be inherently contradictory, but it really isn’t. And it has to do with what we explained before about the lag in when you look at the indications that Dr. Birx and the president was talking about. Will you see a flattening out of cases? And you don’t see the realization of what that means until two weeks later. So right now, we’re seeing, as we all said correctly, that this is probably going to be a really bad week. That is a reflection of what happened two and a half weeks ago.
<01:22:41>
So if we start seeing now a flattening or a stabilization of cases, what you’re hearing about potential light at the end of the tunnel doesn’t take away from the fact that tomorrow, the next day it’s going to look really bad. So we’ve got to make sure we realize we’re always talking about a two and a half week lag. So I wanted to make sure, because I think a couple of people ask that question. It’s really not incompatible with what we’re saying. Now with regards to what do we tell the American people? Kelly, what we’ve been telling them all along. That the only tool, but the best tool we have is mitigation. We know it worked in other countries and we’re seeing how it’s working here. So if we really want to make sure that we don’t have these kinds of rebounds that we’re worried about, it’s mitigation, mitigation, mitigation. That’s the answer.
<01:23:37>
It’s the same thing. It’s mitigation, mitigation, mitigation. And in fact, here’s the famous Vice President chart. Is that this is the minimal of what we should be doing. Everyone should be doing that. And everything on here, one way or the other, points to physical separation. Whether it’s no crowds, whether it’s six feet, whether it’s staying away from theaters and restaurants and what have you.
<01:24:07>
Exactly, exactly.
<01:24:22>
I wouldn’t say I’m worried about it because I don’t think it’s going to happen. I mean, from what I’ve seen, and I mentioned that the other day, my own experience is that people really understand the responsibility that they have for themselves, for their family and for the country. So this is about all of us. This isn’t just about us. Because if everybody does their part, you are going to not have those kinds of rebounds that we’re worried about.
<01:24:56>
We don’t know. And even among us, good friends that we all are, we differ about that. I mean, it’s somewhere between 25 and 50%.
<01:25:07>
In other words, about the people that are out there. Yeah. And trust me, that is a estimate. I don’t have any scientific data yet to say that. You know when we’ll get the scientific data? When we get those antibody tests out there and we really know what the penetrance is, then we can answer the questions in a scientifically sound way. Right now, we’re just guessing.
<01:25:54>
Why am I not wearing a face mask now? Okay, there are a couple of reasons. One of them is that part of the, in fact the major reason to wear a face mask is to protect you from infecting you. I had my test yesterday and it’s negative.
