<10:05>
Thank you, Mr. President. We have a particularly difficult problem of exacerbation of a health disparity. We’ve known literally forever that diseases like diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and asthma are disproportionately afflicting the minority populations, particularly the African Americans. Unfortunately, when you look at the predisposing conditions that lead to a bad outcome with coronavirus, the things that get people into ICU that require intubation and often lead to death, they are just those very co-morbidities that are unfortunately disproportionately prevalent in the African American population. So we’re very concerned about that. It’s very sad. It’s nothing we can do about it right now except to try and give them the best possible care to avoid those complications.
<10:56>
Thank you, Mr. President.
<01:23:05>
I just want to make a brief comment to get back to the discussion about the health disparities in the African American community because it really is very important. And the reason I want to bring it up because I couldn’t help sitting there reflecting about sometimes when you’re in the middle of a crisis like we are now with the coronavirus, it really does have ultimately shine a very bright light on some of the real weaknesses and foibles in our society.
<01:23:33>
And as some of you know, the greater proportion of my professional career has been defined by HIV AIDS. And if you go back then during that period of time when there was extraordinary stigma, particularly against the gay community and it was only when the world realized how the gay community responded to this outbreak with incredible courage and dignity and strength and activism that I think that changed some of the stigma against the gay community. Very much so.
<01:24:04>
I see a similarity here because health disparities have always existed for the African American community. But here again with the crisis, how it’s shining a bright light on how unacceptable that is, because yet again, when you have a situation like the coronavirus, they are suffering disproportionately. As Dr. Birx said correctly, it’s not that they’re getting infected more often, it’s that when they do get infected, their underlying medical conditions, the diabetes, the hypertension, the obesity, the asthma, those are the kind of things that wind them up in the ICU and ultimately give them a higher death rate.
<01:24:43>
So when all this is over and as we’ve said it will end, we will get over coronavirus but there will still be health disparities which we really do need to address in the African American community. Thanks. All set
<01:36:17>
My daughter is a school teacher, so she asked me the same question. It is unpredictable, but you can get a feel for if we start talking about the things where the curve goes down and we really have minimal. How we respond and what kind of a rebound we see or don’t see I think it’s going to have a lot of influence, probably more immediately on things like summer camps than it does in the fall. I fully expect though I’m humble enough to know that I can’t accurately predict that by the time we get to the fall that we will have this under control enough that it certainly will not be the way it is now where people are shutting schools. My optimistic side tells me that we’ll be able to renew to a certain extent, but it’s going to be different. Remember now because this is not going to disappear, so we’re going to have to have in place the capability of doing the things that we talk about all the time on this stage. To identify, to isolate, to contact trace, number one. Number two, by that time we’ll have a better feel with the antibody test about what the actual penetrance of this infection was in society. How many people have actually been infected? Who’s protected? If you have antibodies it’s very likely that you’re protected. Who’s vulnerable? Do you treat vulnerables different than you treat the people who are protected?
<01:37:42>
All of these things are going to go into the decision of just how much back to the original way we’d like it to be in the fall. Bottom line is no absolute prediction, but I think we’re going to be in good shape.
<01:40:00>
I think there’s so much focus now on coronavirus that particularly if you take New York, which we all know is having a disproportionately higher proportion of the burden of the entire country is right now in New York. I can’t imagine if someone comes in with coronavirus goes to an ICU and they have an underlying heart condition and they die, they’re going to say cause of death, heart attack. I cannot see that happening. So I don’t think it’s going to be a problem.
<01:40:53>
I can’t be confident to predict patterns, but the underlying reason why that is happening doesn’t change from state to state.
<01:41:04>
I expect that when African Americans get infected, given the disproportionate disparity of the underlying conditions that lead to complications like the ones I mentioned, I expect that we will still see the pattern that when you look at the proportion of people who get into serious trouble and die, again, it’s going to be disproportionate towards the African-Americans. I do expect that.
<01:41:36>
Yes. The answer is yes, it will be public as soon as you get enough data to be able to make a meaningful statement.
