<01:28:17>
The easiest… Thank you for that question. The easiest way to find out is to just go clinicaltrials.gov and it will tell you everything that’s there. There are a number of different clinical trials, some of which are randomized controlled trials, which as I’ve said many times from this podium, to me is the optimal way to determine ultimately if something is safe and effective and works, but there are a lot of different ways that it’s being looked at. It’s being looked at against the placebo. It’s being part of a multi arm trial comparing it with others. There’s a trial that was recently started actually in prophylaxis among healthcare workers, so there are several of these.
<01:28:54>
In addition to that, there’s what was just mentioned now that any physician in consultation with their patient and back and forth can make the decision to use the drug on an off label. So we have two things that are simultaneously going on. We’re having actual formal clinical trials and the off label use.
<01:29:39>
Well, I’m not sure, but we have the director of the CDC here that could answer that question, but let me try to just take it from a different perspective. The health disparities that exist are not anything that started with coronavirus. They were there, so there isn’t much you can do about the disparity. The thing you can do is to make an extra special effort to protect people who have the underlying conditions. So it’s the same way as we say, well the elderly and those with underlying condition. Unfortunately, the African American community has a much greater proportion population for population of these underlying conditions. The best weapon we have right now is what I said in my opening remarks is to do whatever we can to get them to realize that what we need to do is to protect them from getting infected and to also protect them from inadvertently and innocently bringing the infection to people who have these underlying conditions.
<01:37:41>
Just add a comment to that because having been through other serious issues, particularly the very painful early years of HIV AIDS, when people talk about conspiracy theories. You will always have conspiracy theories when you have a very challenging public health crises. They are nothing but distractions. I can assure you, we have so much to do to protect the health and the welfare of the American people that I would just hope we just put those conspiracy stuff and let somebody write a book about it later on, but not now.
