<28:35>
Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. What I’m going to do just over the next minute or so is maybe connect some of the dots, the things that you’ve heard today. First, the status of the dynamics of the outbreak. I mean, you all know the numbers, you’ve seen them. We have widespread infection, but to varying degrees throughout the country. So for example, when you talk about the kinds of mitigation issues that we have put forth and have emphasized, just as I mentioned the other day, there are two dynamic forces that are going on at the same time. You’re having the natural course of an outbreak trying to peak at a high level, and then you have the mitigation strategies which are aimed at dampening that. We’ve mentioned that multiple times. We often get asked, how do you know you’re having an effect? Because there are two things that are going on at the same time, they may be confounding.
<29:26>
Well, I can tell you for sure from a public health standpoint and experience with other outbreaks, we know we are clearly having an effect, but we can’t quantitate it for you accurately now because looking forward, you’ll know what the impact of the rate of this steep inclines will be. So that’s what we’re going to come back to you every day and keep you up to date about that.
<29:49>
Getting with regard to the disproportionate of the response. Everyone is right here. I’ll get to open up the vice president’s book with his permission. This is baseline for everyone. In other words throughout the country. But then there will be areas, and you’ve heard them, Washington state, California, New York City in which the dynamics of the outbreak are clearly different and much more robust if you want to use that word. And that’s the reason why we’ve seen the mitigation ratcheted up in that regard. And again, hopefully, and I have confidence it will happen, you will see impact on that.
<30:28>
Next, getting to testing. You saw the numbers with testing. Remember there was always an issue with testing. I think we’re getting to the solution that everybody in the country is looking for, but I want to emphasize one thing that Admiral Giroir mentioned is that not every single person in the United States needs to get tested. He gave you the priorities. I don’t want to repeat them, but let me tell you one of the unintended consequences of individuals who don’t need to get tested that flood the desire to get tested.
<31:02>
Currently, and I hope we’ll be able to change it and make it much less reliable on PPEs, when you go in and get tested, you are consuming personal protective equipment, masks and gowns. Those are high priority for the health care workers who are taking care of people who have coronavirus disease. So what we don’t want to do is to have a situation where we will, we do have disparities in availability of PPEs now and we’re working hard to correct that. But currently today we want to make sure that the people who are taking care of people with coronavirus disease do not endanger themselves because they don’t have the personal protective equipment.
<31:47>
And then finally, one last thing was just mentioned, the surgeon general has been pushing this, please put off, cancel elective medical and surgical procedures. You don’t want to not ever do them, but for the time being don’t do them because they also not only consume personal protective equipment, they may also consume some of the things like ventilators that you might need. So let’s pull in this together and we will get through it, I promise you. Thank you.
<49:27>
Yeah. There are some CDC guidances about how you can minimize the use of masks by different things that you could do with testing and when you have masks, how you might reuse them, which ones you can reuse them.
<49:44>
Well, there are a couple of things. One, for example, we are moving towards getting testing where you don’t have to have PPE. I mean, I didn’t want to, I’m not going to tell you the day it’s going to be there, but it’s going to be a swab that you could stick in the nose of the person who is either infected or not, but that person doesn’t need PPE. The person who is administering the test. So if you could do a self administered test, stick it in a vial hand it over. You don’t need a mask, you don’t need PPE. That’s one of the things we’re trying to do.
<55:54>
Just to reiterate what Fred said. We don’t take lightly what you just read. I mean, I get the calls every night.
<56:04>
The way you get emails. It’s a serious issue. We don’t want that to happen, but it is happening. You’re not making things up. I know that because I’m experiencing it myself. But what you just heard about the different avenues, some of which aren’t even recognized, about how you can get help through the FEMA process in addition to the large amounts of additional PPE that’s coming into the system. We hope that very, very, very soon we’re not going to get those kinds of real life difficulties.
<56:43>
Sooner than weeks. It’s going to be days. I would hope, we’re going to try to make it days to the best possible way we can.
<01:02:15>
Yeah, they have a place. They’re not infallible. There’s so many ways to get around that. Right now every time, certainly here we get, every time I go into a different room I got my temperature taken. But we see that on the outside that some people are doing that.
<01:02:32>
Very low. There is a role for it under certain circumstances. What I don’t see is a massive distribution of thermometers that are going to actually have a major impact on what I showed, what we need to do.
<01:10:36>
Of course.
<01:25:04>
Sure. It’s essentially what I said multiple times from this podium, is that when you have … First of all, we’re trying to develop de novo drugs that are not yet out there, not approved, that ultimately would be effective, and the way you prove that is to do a randomized control trial to prove safety and efficacy. I’m not totally sure what the president was referring to, but I believe he’s referring to a report that used both hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin together to have some possibility of being an effect.
<01:25:39>
Many of the things that you hear out there are what I had called anecdotal reports. They may be true, but they’re anecdotal, so the only thing that I was saying is that if you really wanted to definitively know if something works that you’ve got to do the kind of trial that you get the good information. The president is talking about hope for people, and it’s not an unreasonable thing to hope for people, so when you have approved drugs that physicians have the option, and a decision between the physician and the patient, are you going to use a drug that someone says from an anecdotal standpoint, not completely proven, but might have some effect? There are those who lean to the point of giving hope and saying give that person the option of having access to that drug, and then you have the other group, which is my job as a scientist to say my job is to ultimately prove without a doubt that a drug is not only safe, but that it actually works.
<01:26:38>
Those two things are really not incompatible when you think about that, particularly when you’re in an arena where you don’t have anything that’s proven. We went through the same sort of thing with a little bit of a different twist during the HIV/AIDS epidemic until we finally developed drugs that were absolutely knockout drugs that were safe and that were effective. But in the beginning there was that tension about that, so you’ve really got to have a balance. I’ve got to do my job as a scientist, and others have other things to do.
