<30:02>
Thank you very much, Mr. President. I’d like to just take a couple of moments to talk a little bit about the public health aspects and how it relates to what the president just said about the need for us to begin to at least think about returning to some degree of normality. And that has to do with what’s going to be happening as we end this week and we go into next week.
<30:22>
You will be seeing, and we should not be surprised because the kinetics of how this virus works, is that we’re going to be seeing that they’re going to be deaths that are going to continue to go up. But as I mentioned to this group and to the general public multiple times, there really is a cascading of events where you have new cases, hospitalizations, intensive care, and deaths. So at the same time that we may be seeing an increase in deaths, we want to focus on … The effect of mitigation is really the number of new cases, and that’s what we’re going to be thinking about and looking about. So we’re going to pay close attention to that. And hopefully the kinds of mitigations that we’re talking about are going to have the impact to allow us to begin to think about maybe changing a bit.
<31:08>
So the question arises is is the mitigation working? So let’s look historically and then just look at the reality of it. Clearly in the countries, China included, that have implemented very strict kinds of programs of mitigation, clearly it works. In our own country, we’ve seen indication of that in Washington. Remember Washington state was the first to get hit, but they put in a really good program of mitigation. And if you look at the charts that Dr. Birx showed the other day, they’re still down there doing well.
<31:42>
And the reason is, again, what I’ve said before, but I think it’s worth reiterating, that we have two opposing forces here. The virus, which wants to do what the virus wants to do, viruses transmit from people to people. When people are separated from each other, virus does not transmit. It doesn’t go anywhere. And that’s the reason why something as simple as the physical separation … Because if you look at the vice president’s chart that he shows all the time here from this podium, every aspect of that ending the COVID outbreak in 30 days has, some aspect of it, a physical separation. Whether that’s avoiding crowds, whether that’s staying six feet away from people, whether that’s doing teleworking, all of it does that. That’s our most important tool. We’ll be talking about vaccines and drugs and things like that that will mitigate later, but this is what we really have to do. And I want to actually just plead, as I do multiple times from here, to the American public. As sobering and as difficult as this is, what we are doing is making a difference. So we really need to continue to do that.
<32:53>
I must tell you, I was just mentioning to the vice president as we came in, last night when I wasn’t here … I went out with my wife and actually did a little power walking down Massachusetts Avenue. Those who live in Washington know what I’m talking about. And we passed a couple of restaurants where people were getting takeout food. The restaurants were closed to people going in, but they were open to takeout. And I saw something that absolutely made me feel really, really good. They were separating themselves by at least six feet. In fact, some of the restaurants had little things on the floor that said, “Stand here and then stand there.” And I think if we as a nation pulled together to do that, hopefully when we keep coming back here at these press conferences, we’ll be able to show you that that curve that we keep talking about is going in the right direction. And I’d be happy to answer questions later. Thank you.
<57:49>
Yes, we do. I mean, one of the things that obviously is parallel with thinking about the possibility, as I mentioned a little while ago, of mitigation allowing us to turn the corner, very much on the front burner, is what happens when we do, because the risk of there being a resurgent is real.
<58:06>
So what we need to do, and I believe I said this before, but it’s worth repeating, that what we need to have in place, and we will have that in place, is that as you then pull back, you have to have the capability, in a very pristine, precise way, do the kind of containment when you do see it.
<58:25>
Because, remember, when you get to mitigation, containment takes the back seat because you’re just struggling to mitigate. But when you get it down, you need to make sure it doesn’t resurge. That will require the ability to test, to identify, to isolate, and to do contact tracing. That’s what we have to have in place and hopefully we will at the time that we then pull back.
<01:01:54>
What is the question? Is that, what is the incidence of coronavirus-?
<01:01:59>
Yeah. Yeah. Right now this is being looked at in a natural history study. We don’t have any definitive information to be able to make any comment on that. It’s an obvious good question because it might be a way for us to get some interesting and potentially important data as to the role of those medications, but that’s something that is now being looked at, but we don’t have any data to be able to say anything definitively.
<01:11:06>
I’m glad you brought up that question because I don’t think people can really fully appreciate the extraordinary effort of these people. It’s amazing. I did all of my medical training in New York City in a big, busy New York City hospital at a time when it was just what you normally see in a hospital.
<01:11:27>
I came to NIH and I spent about five to eight years in the very early years of the AIDS epidemic, which was just the darkest years of my life because almost every single one of my patients died. And yet, as we knew epidemiologically that there was very little risk, there was a small risk, but very little risk of getting infected from a patient to see now, with these brave warriors are doing in the hospitals, not only giving life saving treatment to people, but every single day putting themselves at risk for themselves and their family.
<01:12:05>
I just think that the American public owe a phenomenal debt of gratitude for these people.
<01:12:12>
And they should just salute them at every, every ways you can. You know, when we were at war, at the height of the war in Afghanistan, in Iraq, when you’re at an airport and you’d see somebody with a uniform come by, everybody would do that. I think that’s what we should do when we see healthcare workers, just applaud them.
<01:19:37>
You know, it’s tough to talk about levels of confidence, but I can tell you one thing that I feel strongly, that if we do in a very proactive way what I said in my opening comments and people literally across the country as a baseline have that physical separation, and as we’ve mentioned up here, there’ll be varying degrees of that depending upon whether you’re in New York City or you’re in a place that’s less, but every place, everybody should be doing some degree of this physical separation.
<01:20:08>
If we do that, again, I have confidence that what we will see is the turning around of the curve, whether or not it will be all the way down to what we want, it’s impossible to say. I would be foolish to say that, but the one thing I am confident in, so let’s take this to the bank, that mitigation works. It does. We’ve seen it in other countries. We’ve seen it in our own country, and that’s the reason why I keep coming up at every chance I get to plea with the American people to please take a look at those guidelines that the Vice President keeps putting up with his chart. Because every single one of those points has something to do with physical separation.
<01:30:57>
So, I mean ditto to everything that Dr. Birx said, but also to emphasize why it’s so important to do that because we’re looking at three or four really key hotspots that are still going up. It’s absolutely essential that the ones that are down at that lower level that Dr. Burke showed the other day, those communities where they’re still going up, we’ve got to make sure we don’t have multiple waves of peaks. That’s going to be the answer to the question of when we can start pulling back because if you keep having multiple peaks and different waves, that’s going to make it very difficult.
