<19:11>
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for outlining how well we are doing in a series of metro areas. What also has been encouraging for those of you who are watching epidemic curves every day, and I’m sure you are, and watching them in log phase because that’s how epidemiologists like to look at their curves. You can see for the first time that in the United States we’re starting to level on the log rhythmic phase like Italy did about a week ago.
<19:38>
And so this gives us great heart that not only in specific places but we’re starting to see that change. Obviously, a lot of that is driven by the improvement in New York city, remember for a long time they were over 50% of our cases and 50% of our new cases. That has dramatically changed because of the impact of what the citizens of New York and New Jersey and across Connecticut and now Rhode Island are doing to really change the course of this pandemic and really change the trajectory of new cases.
<20:14>
We’re seeing that what many states and metro areas were experience as two-fold and four-fold, four-fold increases that went to two-fold that now those are going to eight days between the doubling rate. Watching this every day gives us hope across these metro areas from New York and New Jersey and all through Denver and of course through New Orleans.
<20:38>
We still see cases occurring in the Boston area and in Chicago, but their rate of increase seems to be stabilizing and we really want to call out the work of the mayors of Baltimore and the District and Philadelphia who have really brought all of their health experts together and working with their communities are starting to really change the curves in those areas. What we’re seeing is we’re united in social distancing and that’s been very encouraging to all of us and it should be encouraging to the healthcare providers that are on the frontline, many of which are serving our Americans with such dignity and respect in ensuring that everybody gets optimal care.
<21:22>
And as the President noted, our mortality in the United States is significantly less than many of the other countries when you correct them for our population. And that is really solely the work of our frontline healthcare providers. And so working with… You can really… hopefully you get the theme today that we are incredibly proud of our public health leaders at the city level, at the state level, at the federal level who are working together to really change the course of this pandemic, working with their citizens in their communities to make these changes and the American public who have really taken all of this to heart and stayed home.
<22:01>
I know last week we really asked a lot of people in the Washington and Baltimore area to consolidate, not go out frequently to grocery stores or pharmacies. You can really see that that’s having a huge impact. So it’s really about the encouraging signs that we see, but as encouraging as they are, we have not reached the peak.
<22:23>
And so every day we need to continue to do what we did yesterday and the week before and the week before that because that’s what in the end is going to take us up across the peak and down the other side. We continue to really applaud the work of California and Washington State and Oregon. We’re learning from all three of those states, from their public health officials about how they were able to keep the virus from ever becoming logarithmic. And I think that’s an important lesson for all of us on how they did that, what the timing was in case we ever have to face this issue in the future. Thank you, Mr. President.
<45:04>
Thank you Mr. President. So the testing. I want to reemphasize about what kind of testing we’re talking about. This is RNA diagnostic testing. That is the platform that was built to respond to this epidemic. It is the same platform that we utilize for HIV viral loads. And so many HIV clients have also given up their space on the machines to have these tests run for all of Americans.
<45:29>
This assay is complicated. It’s not like an assay that you have for your other diseases, your strep test or other diseases like that. This is a very complicated assay that requires a lot of technical oversight and it’s part of the reason why not all 100% of machines are running at full capacity. But we had great discussion with the lab directors about that. Every day more are brought online, but I think we have to create expectations of what the daily test rates will be.
<46:02>
Last year we probably did 3 million HIV viral loads or 4 million HIV viral loads as a country. We’ve done almost 2.2 million in four weeks. So this is unprecedented in what we have to do. I think that’s why we’re working very hard for two pieces and I want to make sure that people understand testing is just part of our strategy. The other part of the strategy has to be this syndromic and influenza like illness where there’s an alert to an illness. And so that we’re surveying where we know the most vulnerable cases have appeared, and the great call that I had with the mayors and with the health officials yesterday and mayors today. A lot of the rural areas, their primary and as it was in Washington and California was at the nursing homes.
<46:51>
So the issue is to build a testing strategy that speaks to our strengths of laser focusing a strategic approach to testing when we know what our volumes are. And they increase every day, but we have to be realistic about what the volumes will be a week, two weeks, three weeks from now. And combine that with strategic surveillance so that we’re testing symptomatic people and their contacts very quickly to go back to contract tracing, utilizing our complete strategy. And I think we’re very much interested, and it’s why the president three weeks ago really put us on getting an antibody test.
<47:28>
I called from the podium for our university colleagues and hospitals to begin an ELISA based test because that’s a blood draw. But we really wanted a finger prick to make it easy and deployable. That’s what’s being worked on now. Of course we don’t want to promise until we have it because I think we deserve that. The American people deserve that. To have a test that is efficient, to let people know who’s been positive for immunity. That’s critical to epidemiologists and public health officials, to know what the penetrance of a virus was into a community when all you’re seeing are the serious cases and testing the most symptomatic. And so that’s a question that we still have.
<48:09>
Is this the tip of the iceberg or is this half the iceberg or three quarters of the iceberg? What we have seen to date. And we have, I just want to complete the thought by saying in the areas where we had an outbreak, these large metros, Louisiana, Denver, Detroit, Chicago, New York, New Jersey, by per capita we’ve done more tests than any other place in the world. That was intentional. We focused the tests where the need was the greatest and the burden of disease the greatest, and now we’re trying to really see how strategically that very valuable resource can be utilized around the countries to create a mosaic of testing combined with surveillance.
<49:24>
We haven’t seen <crosstalk 00:49:25>.
<01:54:55>
We’re taking turns today. Good, it’s good. So the model, the IHME model does state that it’s through May. Every … We’ve had these model discussions, haven’t we? For weeks now. So the models are informed by the data and you can see how much that model has shifted on the amazing work of the American people. So I think that’s what we’re evaluating right now. Remember, when I talked yesterday, I’ve been in public health a long time. I have never … Except for Ebola where we worked very closely with the communities about specific issues. We’ve never taken a country wide or a global wide approach to mitigation. This is unprecedented. I will tell you there is nothing in the literature about specifically what to expect, and I think that’s why the models continue to modify themselves based on what actually has happened with social distancing and hand-washing and all of the pieces that the American people are doing.
<01:56:00>
The decreasing, the closing of the bars, the closing of the restaurants, no communal eating. That was thought to be a very big issue in many of the other cultures that went through this virus. The models continue to evolve based on the impact and so therefore it makes it very difficult to interpret each component of social distancing, and which ones are absolutely critical. Now there’s a way to do that in multivariate analysis potentially, and I want everyone to understand there are states that are testing, there are states that are doing contact tracing. So I mean, I think sometimes we get … We look at what New York is doing and Detroit, we forget that there’s a Utah and New Mexico and a North and South Dakota and a whole series of states that have been doing testing and contact tracing and have been testing at rates higher than that per capita rate that we all have discussed.
<01:56:53>
So we’re looking at that. What did they do? Where are the most vulnerabilities? Where are the outbreaks most likely to occur? That’s why I’ve been talking about nursing homes, because we do believe that there’s a relationship between age and seriousness of disease. Not to say that there can’t be young people with serious disease, but proportionally it’s a smaller piece with serious disease. So when you have that kind of spectrum where the older and the more complicated, the higher the severity, you have the impression that there may be more asymptomatic in younger age groups. And that’s where the antibody test comes in.
<01:57:31>
So when you put all these pieces together, you’re trying to understand where would be the first signals, so we have surveillance out there right now with the CDC’s influenza like illness. I hope you’re all tracking that. It is showing these small changes. I think we can believe in that as a surveillance tool married with their syndromic piece, giving us the insight about where to test and then where to proactively test, in nursing homes and other vulnerable groups, because that has been the signal in a series of the states that have very, very low prevalence and incidence of disease.
<01:58:07>
So that’s the kind of factors we’re putting all together to really define the best way forward. And we have superb roadmaps. I hope you all have seen them. There’s been about six different roadmaps to opening that people have put online and, again, there’s no literature that you can cite and say, “Well, we did this 20 years ago and what really worked.” There’s isn’t that, there’s brilliant public health people giving us their insights.
<01:58:46>
Well, look at how much it changed with mitigation and now we’re looking at those state by state, and there’s some states in there that are still in contact tracing. So we’re looking at the impact of that model, what that model predicted based on the type of contact tracing, less mitigation, more contact raising. Are you getting what I’m talking about? Okay. So there are states that didn’t stay at home orders, but we’re doing contract tracing from outbreak. So we’re looking at them and how they have done and we’re looking at certainly what’s happened in the big metro areas and we’re integrating all of that data together to make a plan going forward.
<01:59:29>
So I can’t tell you … Because look at how much the model has changed in just a week. Remember just a week ago, it was 80,000 now it’s 60,000, and the curves, I’m sure you’re all watching it, the curves are getting much broader confidence intervals. There is still the dotted line, but the confidence intervals around the dotted line are getting bigger. When you see that, you know the model has a bit of an instability. And so that’s why Tony and I base a lot of our decision and discussion on cases and what physically is happening in that county and that state at the same time, not ignoring the models, but integrating the models as one piece of our thought process. Do you want to come up here and say what you think about models? Okay.
