<30:15>
Thank you. Good afternoon. I just completed my second week. I want to just start with the four things that I have learned in the last two weeks. One, we’re at our best when the country comes together in a bipartisan way and that has really been extraordinary to witness. But secondly, what you may not have seen as much of is the willingness of state and local governments to work together with the federal government in a seamless way, independent of party affiliation.
<30:42>
The third thing has been the remarkable decrease in bureaucracy and red tape in order to get us to where we are today. This is particularly evident in the CDC. And then finally the understanding that in order to unleash and serve every American, we have to create public- private partnerships that bring together the extraordinary strength of our private sector.
<31:05>
When we saw issues with testing, and again I want to remind everyone, it was a surveillance system that was set up by public health institutions in the United States, our CDC, to be a surveillance test. We then, because there was no other moved it to a diagnostic tests, but now we have the full power of our testing capacity. What do I mean by that? We’re looking at what it will take to have consumer access and that’s what the private sector is bringing to us.
<31:32>
Secondly, we had to have automated high throughput testing because we want the American people to be able to get their results quickly. And you’ve heard from Roche and Thermo Fisher that access. But finally we want to make sure that patients get results. And that was what was critical in that bill yesterday on reporting and requiring reporting because obviously as we decentralize, as we move out of state and local laboratories, public health laboratories, as we move out into the hospitals in the communities, we need to know about the test results so that we can focus resources where they’re needed the most.
<32:09>
Finally I want to conclude with something that’s very important. When you are tested and our results look very similar to South Korea now to date where South Korea, 96 plus percent of people with symptoms were negative. That means also that they had respiratory symptoms. Let’s remind all of us, most respiratory diseases are contagious.
<32:33>
If you have any respiratory symptoms, you want to protect yourself and treat yourself, but you also want to protect others. And so let’s everyone assume when they have a respiratory illness that you have a contagious illness because if it isn’t allergies, it’s contagious. And let’s use those precautions across the board. And let’s, when you get a negative test that means you’re negative that day. That doesn’t mean that you couldn’t get the virus spreading overnight because it replicates in your nose, in your nasal secretions and you would have a positive test tomorrow.
<33:08>
If you have a negative test, that doesn’t mean that you can discontinue precautions. It doesn’t mean you can start taking risks because you were negative. Let’s ensure that if you had symptoms, you are contagious. Let’s treat yourself as being contagious. And if you have a negative test, let’s make sure that you’re still protecting others from whatever you do have and it doesn’t reassure you personally and you take additional risk.
<33:35>
Finally, I just wanted to conclude with a group of clients and patients that we are all very worried about. These are individuals that we call long-term survivors from HIV. They’re here across the country that have survived more than four decades with HIV. Many of them still carry a level of immunocompromise. To all of them out there, please take care of yourself. Please ensure that you’re doing everything possible to ensure you don’t get exposed. Thank you.
<53:42>
Yeah. Thank you Mr. Vice President for mentioning that because as I told you in South Korea there are 250,000 plus tests. About 96 plus percent were negative and that was with symptoms. So we’re working very hard integrating everything they have learned about symptoms and screening and that is going into the development of this website, so it’s not just a simple checkbox website. It’s actually going to go through critical symptoms and that’s why we’re giving ourselves the weekend to get it put up. So far in the United States from LabCorp and Quest, they’re running about a 99 to 98% negativity. This always worries me because I’ve worked in public health a long time. When you tell someone they’re negative, yes, it’s reassuring, but the last thing we want is them so reassured that they stop practicing these critical practices that are going to protect all of us.
<54:36>
This epidemic will be stopped at the community level. Those are the individuals, it’s Americans and their response that will get us over this hump and that’s why, yes, we’ll have testing available. We’ll have to know that many are going to be negative and you’re going to have to help us carry that message, that that means just at that moment you’re negative. You need to continue to do all of your protection and protection of others to ensure you remain there.
<01:01:37>
Yeah, thank you Mr. Vice President. So every day we analyze data from around the world and look at age groups that are impacted, look at and try to get a sense of the amount of asymptomatic patients. Now remember, all of the groups that are doing screening are screening on symptoms. And so we’re trying to figure out based on that information and based on the profile of the epidemic to really understand is there a whole group under 20 that really doesn’t get significant symptoms. Yet, we don’t believe that uniquely people under 20 are naturally protected from the virus. So are they a group that are potentially asymptomatic and spreading the virus. Because of that and because of that unknown, we don’t want to say that the risk is low when we don’t know how low the numbers are for people who are asymptomatic. We have a good sense of the number of people who are having symptoms and we have a good sense of who is deeply impacted by this.
<01:02:41>
I mean if you look at all the data coming out of all of the countries that we triangulate on a twice a day basis, people of a certain age are at higher risk for a worse outcome. And that’s why we have been so laser focused on that. But the other side of the epidemic is how much transmission. And until you really understand how many people are asymptomatic and asymptomatically passing the virus on, we think it’s better for the entire American public to know that the risk of serious illness may be low, but they could be potentially spreading the virus to others. And that’s why we’re asking every American to take personal responsibility to prevent that spread. And that’s why we’ve made all of these recommendations broad even past people who have symptoms or no symptoms because we need to have everybody taking precautions.
