<26:49>
Thank you, Mr. President. So, looking at all of the information across the United States, we do see improvement across all the large metros. I know you know that we’ve been talking about the New York Metro Area, New York City, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Long Island, and, really, we do start to see improvement there. We see improvement even now in Rhode Island and Connecticut. The Detroit metro is doing quite well with significant declines now. New Orleans is nearly back to their baseline of where they started for new infections.
<27:28>
We also are seeing improvements in Chicago and Boston, and that has been a great concern for us over the last several weeks. They appear now to be flattening, both. Also, Philadelphia and Houston, Atlanta, Nashville, Baltimore, Indianapolis, and St. Louis also appear to be flattening. The DC Metro Area, we don’t see a decline yet, so hopefully all of you are still social distancing and doing everything that you can.
<27:55>
I wanted to remind everybody of two points. When we brought up and the President put out the guidelines for opening up America, again, it was very clear to use data and to really work together to mitigate against any resurgence and also, critically, to protect the vulnerable. What we’re seeing across rural America and in some of the smaller population states is we’re still seeing outbreaks in long-term care facilities, and we asked everyone in phase one to make sure that they continued their social distancing in public to ensure that the vulnerable with co-morbidities and other conditions and among the elderly, we were staying at home and making sure we were still providing service to them.
<28:42>
But, as individual Americans, as we begin to open up, we also made it very clear that individual Americans need to continue all of their hygiene pieces, ensuring social distancing, washing hands, not touching their face, and making sure that they’re not bringing the virus home to vulnerable individuals within the household. Remember, those were to continue through all three phases, and so really want to call people’s attention again to the guidelines. We are continuing to see outbreaks in nursing homes and in confined spaces, and I think, as Americans, we want to stop that. We have the ability to do that by really paying attention to the guidelines that were to be in all three phases.
<29:25>
So I’m calling on the states again to note that an informed community and knowledgeable community is a protected community. So make sure all of your states have your cases up, visible to the community so they can make decisions and understand where the virus is in their community and understand how to tackle it with their state and local governments. This will be absolutely critical, and there’s surveillance that we called for that was to find asymptomatics before people get sick, as an early warning signal. We asked for those to be in the federal clinics, in our inner city, more vulnerable areas, among indigenous populations, and, of course, in our long-term care facilities and prisons. We really want to support state and local governments to move forward on these critical monitoring to protect individuals that may be in the most critically vulnerable states.
<30:19>
We will continue to see mortality and deaths among our American citizens, particularly in the cities, as they begin to move past peak, because deaths will lag. So we really need to continue to unite and really, really, really support our healthcare providers, who are still on the front lines. They have been on the front lines now for weeks and weeks and weeks. So no matter what city they have been in, they have not seen the relief that we’ve been able to talk about, the light at the end of the tunnel, because of the delay in hospitalizations and deaths. So to our healthcare providers, to our respiratory therapists, and to everyone in the labs, thank you for the work that you’re doing to protect Americans and give us one of the lowest mortality rates in the entire world. Thank you.
<45:09>
Yeah, so we were very clear in the guidelines that we believe we can monitor, again, monitor communities at the community level by using the influenza like illness, and the syndromic respiratory and gastrointestinal components of this particular virus. Obviously when we have flu, and we’re working on an algorithm that you test for flu and then you test for COVID, and making sure that we are building the testing capacity to be able to do that, because I think it’s very important that you’re going to be able… On the surface, a patient when they come in with early flu and early COVID can look very close to identical, so we need to have testing in place to be able to separate and ensure those patients receive the best treatment. We’re also hoping by that time that we have additional treatment options for people with COVID-19 so that there will be additional treatment available in the fall.
<46:13>
The President has made it clear that we have the emergency, which we have been working on, the opening up guidelines and just like he talks about phase four, he has us very much working on the next 60, 90, and for all on with fall, and that’s why he’s not stopped any of the ventilator orders. It’s very important that we have a completely refreshed and a comprehensive stockpile going into the fall, and I think that’s why we’ve continued to bring in those shipments and work on the ventilators so that those would be available not only for the United States but certainly if other partner countries have this level of tragedy. <crosstalk 00:46:51>
<46:58>
I don’t know if it will be worse. I think this has been pretty bad. When you see what has happened in New York, that was very bad. I believe that we’ll have early warning signals both from our surveillance that we’ve been talking about on the vulnerable populations. We’re going to continue that surveillance from now all the way through the fall to be able to give us that early warning signal. I think what we’ve learned is how good Americans are about immediately reverting to all of those issues that they need to do in order to ensure that they’re protected and their families.
<56:50>
I think what I’ve been trying to communicate over the last several days, is it’s really important that the governors and mayors communicate critical information to their communities and show very clearly the data. We remember we wanted this data-
<57:03>
… show very clearly the data. Remember, we wanted this data in evidence-based, the data that they utilize to make decisions and the data that the mayor’s should use in each of the communities because it will have to be on a community by community opening because there are different communities in different places, even in Georgia. So I believe people in Atlanta would understand that if their cases are not going down, that they need to continue to do everything that we said. Social distancing, washing your hands, wearing a mask in public. So if there’s a way that people can social distance and do those things, then they can do those things. I don’t know how, but people are very creative.
<57:46>
So I’m not going to prejudge but we have told people very clearly and the president guidelines made it very clear about the expectations of phase one. Remember phase one also included social distancing in restaurants, social distancing in every place that was entertainment and keeping your own individual social groups to less than 10. And we’ve been very clear in the guidelines and I think it’s up to the governors and mayors to ensure that they’re following the best they can each of those phases to make sure that both the public is completely protected. But the governors and mayors also need to communicate very clearly on the data that was used for decision making and make that transparent and available to their community.
<01:07:56>
Well, we made it very clear in a message to all of the American people with Opening up America Again the criteria that we wanted states to follow. Those were careful criteria. There were only six. They were carefully, carefully selected in conversations with epidemiologists around the world and with CDC to really pick things that people could understand and use platforms that people have utilized in the past. But it was built on the premise that it needs to be data-driven and it needs to protect those who are most vulnerable. And then it went through the phases and the very first thing it says in all phases, all individuals need to continue to wash hands, protect the vulnerable, ensure the safety of others. But in phase one it made it clear that social distancing was absolutely key and I think it’s on the White House website and we ask every American to read it and do use that as their guidelines.
<01:08:57>
Now we’ve also asked governors to create county level information so that communities can see the information and understand why they may be different than a different county so that it’s very transparent and understandable. I had a question here a couple of days ago on a Jacksonville beach and Jacksonville is dramatically different than Miami and I think that was reflected in why Jacksonville had a different set of information and regulations. So I’m not going to second judge anyone about their decision making. What I’m going to say is we were very clear in what we really believe protects the safety of Americans and that is clearly laid out in the Opening up America Again.
