<52:13>
So we’re looking at all those studies very carefully. And I think you will remember over the last three weeks I’ve been talking about the level of asymptomatic spread and my concern about asymptomatic spread. Because, with flu and other diseases when people are sick, it’s easy to contact trace. When people are not sick and shedding virus, you have to have a very different approach, a very different sentinel surveillance approach, a sentinel monitoring approach, which we outlined in the guidelines. And it’s why the guidelines took that very seriously. We knew that was unique for respiratory diseases, but it was because we were very concerned about the level of asymptomatic. And if you remember, we used to… We talked about younger age groups may have more asymptomatic disease and your asymptomatic disease may decrease with your older age groups, and that your symptomatic disease might increase with age groups. This is still our working hypothesis, we have no data right now still to support that.
<53:13>
But it’s these kinds of studies that help that. We know that New York and Detroit and other cities are very interested, which we want to also support them, in testing frontline responders, first responders and healthcare workers, because we think their exposure may have been the greatest. What we don’t want to do… And I’m just going to do another 30 seconds on testing. These tests are not 100% sensitive or specific. And I’m going to go over this over and over again. So if you have 1% of your population infected and you have a test that’s only 99% specific, that means that when you find a positive, 50% of the time will be a real positive and 50% of the time it won’t be.
<53:59>
And that’s why we’re really asking people to start testing in among the first responders and the healthcare workers that may have had the greatest exposure, because that’s where the test will be most reliable. And then, when we have the luxury, we can go out to broader and broader communities. But this has been the fundamental question to begin with, and has been persistent. And we will emphasize to the American people again, this is a highly contagious virus. And we don’t know by looking at someone whether they have preexisting conditions or not. And so, all of us as far as protecting others must continue to do all of the recommendations to ensure that when we are in an asymptomatic state, we’re not passing the virus to others.
<55:00>
We have asked every governor to follow the guidelines just as we’ve asked every American to follow the guidelines put out by the president. But, each of the governors can decide for themselves whether they’ve reached specific guidelines in specific areas. I had a question, I think on Saturday, about Jacksonville and their beaches. So, I did spend about five hours going to every state website, and I will tell you, that the Florida’s Department of Health Website is extraordinary, and this is what every department of health should have. Because when you go to that website, you can see that most of the cases are in Southern Florida, in the Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Broward County area. And if you look in Jacksonville, they had less than 20 cases per day, and less than 800 in four weeks. And so, these are the kinds of… When you inform the public and give them the information that they need, then they can make decisions along with the local government and governors. So, I’m not going to say specifically with South Carolina because I don’t know their specific website right now and I don’t talk about data unless I’ve seen it myself, but I know from Jacksonville that they had less than 20 cases a day. And so, this is how we need to start informing the community. These websites are critical. It’s by zip code and it’s by county, they can see cases, they can see cumulative cases, they can see new cases, they can see hospitalizations, they can see mortality, they can see age groups of mortality, and they can see where every testing piece is. This is how we have to inform the American public, and this is where the American public will develop confidence in each of their counties and local governments
<56:53>
So you can see the current machine outline and you can see that both of these gentlemen have prepared to have everything ready for phase two and preparing it now for what we will need in the future. And I think that’s what you saw with the ventilators, that’s what you’re seeing with PPE. It’s not just for today, it’s for tomorrow. And it’s our federal planning, is not just for this instant. It’s making sure that we meet the needs of this instance, but we’re planning for 30 and 60 and 90 days ahead.
<01:19:07>
You know, that is an excellent question because we watch that all the time, particularly with RNA viruses, to really track its adaptation to humans. I mean, you’re really asking has this virus become more adapted to humans and more able to spread, or is it becoming less adapted to humans and less able to spread? We don’t have any indication that it’s less able to spread, and we’ll have good analyses that will come from, obviously the Roosevelt had its incident with the virus outside of the United States, and we’ll be able to look at those parameters, and the DOD and the military have done a great job in really ensuring the health of the sailors, but also ensuring thar these questions can really be asked and answered.
<01:19:54>
We have extraordinary evolutionary molecular biologists in this country all around the United States, and they’re looking at this very question, and a lot of the work that we’ve been doing and you’ll see a lot of work happening with testing in New Mexico and testing in other states. They have extraordinary molecular biologists that are evolutionary biologists, and they’ll be able to look at that both in New Mexico that may have lower transmission rates, and compare that to New York that has maybe 10 X the transmission. But it’s an excellent question and it’s something that will be able to be answered by what we see in the United States.
