<00:39>
Well, Mr. President welcome to NIH. It’s wonderful to have you here.
<00:42>
Even though we are in fact faced with a very serious public health situation, we have a lot of people here that are working hard on it and are honored by your presence.
<00:50>
And honored also by the presence of the secretary, my boss, and a wonderful boss he is indeed. Maybe I’ll just quickly say who else at the table so you understand who we’re with here. Starting over here. Dr. Barney Graham, who is the deputy director of the Vaccine Research Center, and that’s where we are right now. Next to him, Dr. Kizzmekia Corbett who is the frontline on the bench making this coronavirus vaccine happen.
<01:15>
So a wonderfully talented young scientist in our midst. You know Dr. Fauci of course. Next to him, Dr. John Mascola-
<01:24>
Who’s the director of the Vaccine Research Center. And next to him, Dr. Larry Tabak who’s the principal deputy director of NIH.
<01:31>
And we are all thrilled to have you here. I just wanted to say a word about NIH because we haven’t had the privilege of having you with us before. And just to sort of set the context for this remarkable institution, supported by your administration, the largest supporter of biomedical research in the world, the National Institutes of Health.
<01:48>
We distribute most of our funds, more than 80%, to institutions all over the country, so when you hear about a breakthrough in medical research that happened at the University of Illinois or Florida, it was probably supported by NIH. And we use the most rigorous peer review system in the world to decide what we’re going to fund. And we do everything from fundamental discovery to clinical trials, and everything in between. You could say we do Alzheimer’s to Zika, or A to Z, or some version of that. And we also support infrastructure that makes it possible, at a time like this, to be able to move rapidly in terms of developing a vaccine, and you’ll hear more about that from Dr. Fauci.
<02:25>
The consequences of NIH research, you could measure in various ways. Extension in longevity, reduction in deaths from heart attack down 70% from what they used to be, strokes likewise. Cancer rates of death dropping about one or 2% a year. HIV, which used to be a death sentence now compatibles long survival. Cystic fibrosis, a disease it used to be, maybe get kids to live for eight or 10 years. Now, just in the last few months, announcement of a drug therapy. That means a lot of those individuals are planning for retirement. What a big change it has been.
<02:58>
Economics. I think we could also say this is one of the government’s best investments, because the return on investment, every dollar that NIH spends is about $8.38, because of all of the other economic activity that that inspires.
<03:12>
But a major component of NIH, though it’s only about 11% of the budget, is the intramural program, that’s where you are now on this campus. More than 5000 MDs, PhDs, and MD PhDs work here on a wide variety of things. A few hundred yards from here, the largest research hospital in the world, the NIH Clinical Center. Among their achievements, the first chemotherapy for leukemia, the development of AZT for HIV, cancer immunotherapy now saving lives including people who thought that there was no hope for them, and are now being not just helped but cured. Dramatic advances in treating depression, lithium was invented here. Ketamine now turning to be a really exciting development for people with resistant depression. The first gene therapy for humans done here at NIH. And now evolving to a point where we are curing on this campus, people with sickle cell disease with gene therapy. And of course vaccines. Vaccines developed here for childhood meningitis, for HPV, for Ebola, and now we’re going to talk about coronavirus.
<04:16>
So, for all these reasons, people call us the National Institutes of Hope, and we’re happy to embrace that particular description. And you have next to you the, probably, most highly regarded infectious disease expert in the country. I might even say in the world. Dr. Tony Fauci. And we have been graced by his presence for many decades, and he is exactly the right person to tell you what we’re doing right now about coronavirus, and how we’re going to address the need for a vaccine in order to tackle this really difficult problem.
<04:47>
So, thank you for being here. I hope that’s helped us.
