<09:48>
Well, thank you Mr. President. I just want you to know that on behalf of all of us in the Department of Defense, our thoughts and prayers go out to all of those patients and all those victims that have been affected by this terrible virus. And the President and the Vice President talk all the time about the heroes, but when I’ve been out there I’ve seen the doctors, I’ve seen the nurses and all those that have worked very, very hard, and we’re just so proud to be part of this noble calling.
<10:09>
For my team, I really made it very, very simple. I said, “There’s three legs of this stool and they all have S’s.” There’s sites, in other words hospitals. We’ve got to worry about supplies, and we’ve got to worry about staff. And so right when Governor Cuomo called the President about almost 30 days ago and said, “I need some help,” worrying about what could be tens of thousands of hospital room shortages.
<10:32>
So the President and Secretary of Defense asked us to fly to Albany with a team. And on the way up we understood how complex of a challenge this was, and we knew there’s no way you can solve a complex catastrophe with a complicated solution. We needed a very, very simple solution to be able to then work with HHS, to be able to work with FEMA, to be able to work with the Vice President’s task force, and then to be able to power this down all the way down to the local level. Some of the governors asked us to try to build a hospital in a parking lot or a field in two or three weeks. You can’t physically do that. So what we said was let’s go to where there’s an existing facility, and I’m going to kind of make this in two big pots. Those that are either hotel rooms or college dormitories, smaller rooms, or those that are in real large areas like field houses or convention centers.
<11:21>
And we designed those standard facilities that could be either non-COVID or COVID, and then we got that approved here at the federal government to be able to then power that back down. So we went to Governor Cuomo and he said right up front, “I love the concept. I need you in the Javits Center. I’m ready to start having you work tomorrow afternoon.” So when we flew back that afternoon, the next day we basically built the standard design and then continued to be able to power it down all the way down through the rest of the team.
<11:48>
So I just want to show you a couple of slides here, and we’ll let know where we’re at right now, Mr. President. We had to do a bunch of assessments. So somewhere in the order of over 1100 different locations we went to, and we worked for FEMA, we worked for the President, and we worked for governors and mayors. And we said, “What do you think your demand is going to be?” And based on a lot of the modeling that’s been in this room here, we were able to understand when the peak curve was, but we also were able to understand where’s the bed shortage. So then these 1100 facilities right now today, so we’re actually executing 32 different facilities. That’s on the order of merit of about 16,000 beds. Eight of those are all done. We’ve still got a lot more to complete, and in the next week-and-a-half we’re going to complete about 15 more facilities. We’ve got some pending. Some mayors and governors are still wondering do they have enough bed space.
<12:43>
And what’s important here is we need a very agile plan. You can’t do something three weeks ago and think that this is going to continue to stay because this virus gets a vote. And this entire team, the federal government’s tried to be as agile as they can supporting those states and those governors. The beauty of the plan though is it doesn’t have to be built by the United States Army Corps of Engineers. So we designed about an extra 52 facilities. We gave those to the governors and I’ve got to be very, very laudatory to the governors, they then imposed and put a lot of those on the ground and did those themselves.
<13:16>
So let’s go. I’m just going to show you some real simple pictures here. Go to the next slide if you don’t mind. So this is an example of the Javits Center, and you’ve heard the President talk about it quite a few times. This one about 2100 bed spaces. What you get is about a 11 or 12 foot square cubicle. There is lights in there, there’s a nurse call so if you need to be able to call the nurse station. There are nurse stations throughout. There’s pharmacies throughout. This one started as non-COVID but then we came back in and put in central oxygen so everybody has oxygen right behind their bed to be able to take care of those patients, and again, built this one about a thousand patients treated.
<13:56>
Let’s go to the next one. I was up in Detroit with Governor Whitmere and she walked us through and told us her intent. Here’s what she needed to do this in the TCF Center. You’ll see all the cubicles that are laid out. This is right in the middle of a convention floor where there might be like a boat show or a car show, and then went in and built 970 different capabilities there. And again, a lot of great work by my guys in the Corps of Engineers and the rest of the mayor’s and the city’s team all pulling together.
<14:23>
Let’s go to the next one. This is called the McCormick Place. Governor Pritzker sat us down. He said, “Here’s our intent or what you want to do.” Mayor Lightfoot walked us through and we went into another large convention center. This is actually 3000 bed spaces, a very, very large build, and got this one done in a relatively short time.
<14:41>
And then here’s another one that kind of helps you understand the dynamic here. Go to the next one please. This is in Miami Beach. And I flew in to see Governor DeSantis, and my guys had scoped out about 450 beds and he said, “Todd, how long is it going to take to build this?” And we said probably until the 27th of April. And he went to his health people and he said, “How long do you need?” And he said, “The day we need this is the 21st of April.” And I told my guys, “You don’t have until the 27th. Figure out how to get it done by the 20th.” This is where you don’t get to build to be able to have the perfect solution. You’ve got to be able to get the mission essential done. Lives are on the line here and we’ve got to be able to get everything done to be able to save those lives.
<15:22>
And let’s go to the last one here. This is one we’re doing right now, Colorado. This is in Denver and another gigantic convention center. You’ll see all the different cubicles here to be able to just bring in that oxygen, six-inch copper pipe that comes in and it’s all piped throughout the entire convention center, six miles of pipe that’s able to go in to be able to make that happen.
<15:42>
And in closing, I just want to be able to say that we are very, very focused in the Corps of Engineers getting this done. But this is all about the team, the federal team, the state team, the local team, the vice president’s task force, and a lot of the people sitting here, have informed us of how fast we need to go. And it goes back to again, all the governors and the mayors to make this happen.
<16:02>
But I want to reiterate, President Trump has called me three times, and Secretary Esper has been on the phone at least one of those times, and said, “What else do we need to do to set you up for success? Is there any other knobs we can turn to be able to help you build?” And you think about that equation of those three S’s. I think that with the federal government and the mayors in the cities here, we’ve effectively taken that first S out of the equation. And so I can’t tell you of all the things I’ve done in my career, this is a noble calling to be able to step up and save American lives. So with that, sir, I thank you very much.
<16:46>
So about a week ago we thought we were about capped at 26. What we’re seeing is, as I said, the virus gets a vote. We’re seeing some of these curves are stretching out where we might’ve thought we only had five or six days. We actually have a couple of weeks now. Other ones we’re seeing exactly the opposite. So where we didn’t think there was some, and I’m not going to go into locations here, but we are definitely get requested and we’ve got six more requesting just in the last four or five days. They’re a little bit smaller facilities in more remote areas, but our job, we still, if we have enough time to go build, we want to get in there, do the assessment. We work for the mayor, and the city, and the governor here, and we can still get them done if the mayors and those elected officials make a fast enough decision.
<17:37>
So, sir, I think the most important thing, and you stressed this and Secretary Esper stressed this, there’s really several different priorities here. Our number one priority in Department of Defense and the Corps of Engineers is to protect the team, protect the force. No matter what we do, we’ve got to continue to take care of our civilians and our service members out there, and so every single thing we’re doing, whether we’re building for the VA, or we’re building for civil works projects, or for the Department of Defense, or building on the Southwest border, we are going out of our way.
<18:03>
I talked to my commanders this morning, we’ve got over 4,000 contractors that are on the ground out there and we’ve had no positives as of this morning, knock on wood. Same thing with my 400 employees. We’re testing them. Not necessarily one of the more stringent tests, but with temperatures, to be able to make sure that everybody’s safe and everybody goes out of their way to do things the right way. Construction is going very, very smooth. What we’re seeing is our contractors are extremely focused. Now that we’ve got a good clear path both on the CBP program as well as some of the DOD program. We, I think, very well postured it’s a very, very aggressive build, but we’re well postured to be able to meet your expectations, sir, of 450 by the end of December 2020.
<18:47>
164 as of today, sir.
<18:55>
Yes, sir.
<19:03>
So, same thing, if you have a standard design that you trust in and it works very well. I’ve got to pat on the back Commissioner Morgan. He was very adamant to continue to be able to make sure that it supports his agents. And so we’ve got a design now that certainly does that. And then we’ve got a phenomenal contractor workforce that’s in there, my Corp of Engineer employees and it’s going in well. We don’t see any significant problems. And I think it’s also important to point out that we want to do this the right way. So we try to balance this with environmental considerations that are out there. We’re trying to do due diligence when it comes to anything to do with any of the citizens that are affected. We’re trying to make sure that we’re protecting all of the things that we need to protect and try to find that balance where we can both meet the administration’s directive while at the same time making sure we’re doing this so that everybody gets a vote and everybody has a fair shake.
<20:10>
So I’m an engineer. I take my guidance from some of these experts sitting on the bench over here, and when the President says, “Turn on America,” what we initially did, like many, many other governors, they shut down beaches, shut down cities. I had a meeting with my commanders this morning, and as soon as we think it’s safe, turn them back on. I mean parking out there at a rec area where you’re 500 feet away from everybody in a camper is probably low threat. I will continue to take guidance from the administration, but where we get green lights to continue to put our rec areas full up and let everybody go back out there and do things in the safest way. I mean, we work for the administration so I want to do it safe, but I don’t want to be the last guy that turns things on. Not at all. Yes ma’am.
<21:06>
So, we basically key off what the city asked for, the city and the governor. There are a couple of specific areas that certain city mayors have asked us for. Again, I’m not going to go into details, but we basically, if they go in and say, “I’m very worried about a hotspot on this side of town or a specific community here,” we will do, and that’s what the administration is charged to do, is whatever we can do to be most responsive. We just don’t want ever to have an ambulance pull up to the back of a hospital and somebody says, “We’re out of room, go to the next hospital down.” So that’s where we’re trying to make sure that that bed space is available, and so far everything we built has been ahead of need. In other words, we’re able to finish the building two or three days before it’s needed. Thank you ma’am.
<21:54>
Sir, I get a lot of building to do. I’m going to leave, if you don’t mind.
<21:57>
Thank you, sir.
