<25:06>
Yes, Mr. President. And Mr. President, thank you for coming.
<25:09>
I’m tremendously honored to have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the state and communities who have extraordinary needs, to the president of United States of America. We’re one of the hardest hit states for CODIV, and now devastation has struck central Michigan, where more than 10,000 have been evacuated. Our hearts and minds and prayers are with them. Small businesses continue to need support. Our food banks have capacity needs and shelters need funds, which is why we’ve repurposed our campaign funds in large part, giving back a nickel for every dollar we raise to help feed the hungry, to help clothe the naked, to help heal the sick and take care of our veterans. Recently, we’ve given 200,000 to a medical facility in Detroit, in-person testing Detroiters in the toughest hit area in the country, and working with my friend, representative Whitsett, distributing hundreds of thousands of meals.
<26:01>
I’m not going to steal her thunder. She’s going great work. At our logistics company, automotive company headquartered in Detroit, we were able to help her there. We actually process and ship material made in this plant, sir, and we sell them abroad. We keep American jobs here by making people buy our American goods. We ship Americans goods, not American jobs. So, I’ve said for a long time, sir, you don’t need to go to Venezuela to see the effects of socialism. You can ride right down the highway in Detroit. And I recently pinned an op at the Michigan Chronicle about how 40% of Michigan COVID deaths were African Americans. And when you look at the 14% of us that’s made up, it gets to Secretary Carson, Dr. Carson’s comment about made having a more sustainable path. Mr. President, I believe and agree with you that the 21st century prosperity agenda that focuses on economic security, health and wellness, and having leaders with personal stake in addressing generational poverty among blacks in Michigan and around the country is something that you’ve agreed with and you’ve set your mind to.
<27:04>
Because as we all know, both natural and manmade disasters always have a way of unmasking generations of disinvestment and exploitation of African Americans. I think that a great start is something that you’ve already done, Mr. President. This is the motor city. This is arsenal democracy. And when called upon, Michigan, Detroiters stood up. We’re making ventilators right past this pipe and drape because you called, the president called, the nation called and Michigan stood up. I believe that you know us for cars and trucks. I think in the future, you can know us for planes and rockets. Mr. President, you’re moving jobs back from overseas, you’re moving chip manufacturers to Arizona, you’re bringing pharmaceutical manufacturers to Virginia.
<27:42>
I think we have an opportunity to bring aerospace and rockets back to Michigan. Now you signed an order, Mr. President, executive order 13806, way back before this crisis came, assessing and strengthening the manufacturing and defense industrial base and supply chain resiliency of the United States. You know when you signed that Mr. President? You signed that in July 2017. I don’t think that you’d been president at that time for, eight months at that point or seven months at that point?
<28:10>
And you were already thinking about our supply chain and sustainability and repatriation of jobs and our economic strength. I want to thank you for that foresight, Mr. President. I think we can build on that by expanding the national emergency declaration to encompass the economic threat of our national security, our economic health. I think that Michigan, once again, can stand up when called by its president, in looking at additional opportunities for F35, in looking at launch initiatives with <inaudible 00:11:35>, for a space and polar orbit, but also Taycom expansion. Sir, we have the workforce here, but we need data. We need training and we need jobs in order to emerge from this with a more sustainable path that Dr. Carson laid out, and like you have been laying out for the better part of the past four years. Mr. President, things made here are better, and I trust the people in the state of Michigan and the United States of America. So, I’m looking forward to working with you and anybody else who wants to protect American jobs and protecting American health. So, thank you for being here, Mr. President.
