<03:43>
Thank you. Thank you Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, Secretary Mnuchin, Ivanka Trump and all who I have been working closely with in this effort.
<03:57>
Small business is the backbone of the American economy and the president has put the nation’s 30 million small businesses front and center in the response effort and we are working hard to get money to them quickly. This is an unprecedented effort by this administration to support small businesses and we know that there will be challenges in the process.
<04:22>
Secretary Mnuchin and I are working in tandem to ensure that feedback from our partners is being heard and implemented. The private and public sector must work closely together to ensure that small businesses and their workers across the country are put first. This administration believes wholeheartedly that if you are a small business, you are a critical part of the economic fabric of this country and your viability is critical to the economic wellbeing of your employees.
<04:54>
At SBA, we are working around the clock to support small businesses ensuring that we are prioritizing emergency capital for small businesses that are suffering economic harm as a result of this unprecedented situation. This relief will help stabilize a small business sector by providing businesses with the financial resources they need to keep their workers employed and keep up with their day-to-day operating expenses.
<05:24>
Today I want to ensure that small businesses all over the country know about the paycheck protection program and how they can benefit from this. Simply put, the paycheck protection program is to help keep employees on payroll and small businesses open. SBA will forgive the portion of the loan that is used towards job retention and certain other expenses. We are working closely with lenders so that businesses can go directly to their local lenders. Paycheck protection program is in addition to substantial work that the SBA has and will continue to do to help small businesses including providing advances on SBA disaster loans and forgiving the existing SBA loan payments over the next six months.
<06:13>
Additional details on these critically important programs can be found sba.gov and we will be updating these resources regularly. Our hearts go out to those affected by this terrible virus. Our communities around the country are stepping up and we will get through this together. At SBA, we know that every phone call, email, or application submitted has a small business owner, their employees and the communities they support around the other side. Our most important objective is to allow small businesses to keep their employees onboard and keep their businesses viable through this unprecedented disruption.
<06:57>
I want to reiterate the importance of patience in this process as we work together to ensure that businesses are able to access needed credit. We will continue working around the clock as we’ve done with our federal and private sector partners, expanding capacity and working to make our systems as robust as possible to meet the needs. Thank you, Mr. President.
<23:52>
That’s a great question. We’re concerned about every small business. There’s 30 million small businesses that we’re really focused on and we’re working feverishly to make sure that we can provide the available funds to them as quickly as possible. So it’s 30 million small businesses and the other businesses are being dealt with with the PPP, with the paycheck protection. There was also the disaster, what call the economic injury disaster loans. And then there was an advance associated with that particular program as well.
<24:23>
So to answer your question, we’re concerned about all businesses, and as the secretary indicated, we’re looking at employees being ready, not lost in this process. We want businesses to stay intact because they represent how half the GDP. So if we spend a trillion to support 10 trillion or 11 trillion, I think that’s a significant investment and that’s what we’re focused on.
