<32:09>
Well, thank you Mr. President. It’s just an honor and a pleasure to be here and that you wanted to include me in this wonderful conversation. I am truly honored and humbled to be before you right now, to be able to discuss some of the issues that have transpired in my community. I thank Dr. Carson for pointing out some of the most troubling things that we do have going on in the community, but you have started working on these things long before now. And I do, Mr. President, give you a lot of credit for that, and I thank you for it.
<32:40>
We, as a community, have been struggling. And as you know, our poverty level is extremely high in the area, and everyone is not meant to go to college. So one of the things I would like to point out is that training is a necessity and a need, as John has mentioned. That is something that is imperative for the community. If we have proper training, then we can change our renters into homeowners. We can change the dynamic of my community that I have been in since 1969. And my husband and I, we grew up on the same street. We’ve been there since, like I said, 1969, and my in-laws still live a few doors down from me. And I know how great our-
<33:16>
Yes, I still do. I love my mother-in-law.
<33:23>
As I was saying that it’s imperative that I know that our community can change. I know it can go back to. I know how wonderful it was before, and I know what it can grow back into being. If we can turn renters into homeowners, if we could put the dollar back into the community, if we can change the lives of single mothers that are struggling to make ends meet, which we have been doing with food distribution, but food distribution is not the end all. We don’t want to stay where people are asking for things constantly. We want people to be able to stand on their own two feet and be resilient within their own community and take pride in that, as well as being able to, as you addressed about the historical black colleges…
