<00:12>
Well, a great team. Blessed.
<00:42>
Yeah, I think so. We’re moving in that direction. As the secretary said, you’ve got to think South Dakota’s coming back on board. We’ll have most of our facilities up and going, so as we continue to keep them up and processing and bring more back online and continue to exceed the capacity, we’re going to hopefully prevent what could have been a really sorry situation where we were euthanizing some of our protein supply and really impacting the food supply, not only across the country, but throughout the world. So this is critical infrastructure, it’s an essential workforce, and the team and the effort and the executive order, I think, has really maybe prevented what could have been a really serious situation. I think, Secretary, would you agree with that? We’re still monitoring it. We’ve turned a corner.
<01:46>
Yep, I agree.
<01:47>
Yeah. I mean, Perry came back up at 1660% capacity, which is really, that’s a strong startup.
<02:50>
It’s in tandem we’ve done that, so with the testing, with the PPE, with the restructuring in the facilities, they’re also doing a lot of that as to try to social distance where they can, to put in shields where they can, to look at the lines to separate the shifts, so it really is a partnership, really.
<05:21>
Yeah, no, I would completely agree with that. As I said, I was on a call with most of them yesterday. Thank you for the conference call that you did I think this week, last week with our producers and governors across the country specifically addressing this processing issue, so I appreciate that very much, Mr. Vice President. I just asked if they were having any trouble getting to PPE. No, they were fine. We are seeing the supply chain open up. Appreciate what the administration has done to make sure that they have the adequate PPE to protect their employees. This is their teammates. This is an essential workforce. They know how important it is to take care of workforce, and a big part of it was providing them the confidence to go back into the facility knowing that they either tested positive and they’d recovered, or they were on a shift with other employees that had tested negative, and we’ll continue to work with them.
<06:10>
We’ve made it very clear if they want to do additional testing, we’ll be happy to do that, but they are testing them before they even enter the plant. They’re doing a temperature scan. They’re doing an assessment. They have to have the mask on when they enter the facility. Many times they have the mask and the face shield. They’re doing social distancing. They’re relaxing their attendance policy.
<06:29>
And they feel better, yeah. So it’s a partnership. We’re all working together to make sure that we’re providing them the confidence of a safe environment, but at the same time, we’re making sure that the food supply chain is moving and that the country is being fed and we’re continuing <crosstalk 00:06:46>.
<06:49>
So they are. It’s a fairly close working arrangement, so they are trying to separate, I think, with some additional space between the workforce. I know it’s some of the things that they’re looking at, but they do where they can. They put some of the shields petitions in place.
<08:09>
Yeah, and they’re ramping up capacity.
<11:26>
We’re good.
<11:27>
No.
<11:31>
We’re at 80-85% availability.
