<37:15>
Mr. President-
<37:16>
House Republicans are here in Washington D.C. to work. We want to deliver for the American people and we’re honored to be here today and hopefully the Speaker calls us back into session at the beginning of next week. We’ll see. We should have been here this week, the Senate was here in Washington, D.C. but-
<37:39>
I actually think that she’s just trying to consolidate more power in her own gavel. She likes the feeling of that gavel in her hand. She knows that the grip is being loosened. And come January of 2021 she’s going to have to hand it over to Kevin McCarthy. And in the meantime, she is trying to consolidate as much power as she can and when she brings her House Democrats to Washington and there’s a process where we’re able to participate in crafting legislation, she won’t be able to dictate as much of her obstructionist radical agenda that appeases an enraged liberal base that put that gavel in her hands in the first place.
<38:21>
Many of us here in this room, we’re with you on the beaches of Normandy and we’re honored to be back here today to be with you on V.E. Day. And not just as a member of Congress but also as a army veteran, I want to thank you for all of your support for our military. And in so many ways our military was weakened to before you got into office. And we saw a troop strength reaching levels that were pre-World War II levels. It wasn’t just in troop strength, but it also was with our equipment. And whether it supported the military preparing our troops to win, understanding that you don’t send our troops into battle unless they’re sent to win. You send them to win or you don’t send them at all and you know that. And you’ve been following these principles of understanding our enemies don’t respect weakness, they only respect strength.
<39:09>
And as someone who is still in the Army Reserves and knowing right now that we have men and women abroad, they can feel when they go to sleep at night and their parents can feel good when they go to sleep at night knowing that you have their back. And our greatest generation that fought for our freedoms and liberties 75 years ago, they fought for that flag and our Constitution and made this conversation today possible. I saw them when they were with you in Normandy, those veterans calling out to you from that backdrop like they were 18 or 19 years old again. They just wanted a moment to share with their president just to get a thumbs up back. They were little kids, even though they saved the world. And I want to thank you not just for setting up our military for success, but taking care of our veterans. Because when they come home, they should be treated with the love, dignity, respect they deserve on behalf of very grateful nation.
<40:12>
As a New Yorker, I want to say thank you for what was a phenomenal effort to deliver for us during this coronavirus outbreak. Between Suffolk and Nassau County, we had well over, as of right now, over 70,000 positive cases of coronavirus. Between the Comfort, the Javits Center, field hospitals, Army medics, when New York state asked you for public testing, immediately approved. They asked for private lab testing, immediately approved. They asked for semi-automated testing, immediately approved. I remember getting on the phone with Mark Meadows, we needed ventilators. 4,000 ventilators show up within 48 hours. I remember getting on the phone late, it was 10:00, 11:00 at night on a Saturday with Jared and we’re talking about how the stock pile in Suffolk County was out of regular sized N95 masks. The next day, you’re here in the White House talking about how you’re sending hundreds of thousands of N95 masks and they arrive with the next 48 hours. And a quarter million surgical masks show up instantly.
<41:15>
I get on the phone just a couple of weeks ago with the Secretary of Treasury about the municipal liquidity facility that was set up, to talk about how there’s a need out there for these … A county like mine, not quite two million. We have a population about one point four eight million. We didn’t qualify for the municipal liquidity facility. Secretary Mnuchin, the night of getting the last bill passed, he is on the phone and he’s working to take care of our issues. So what Jared has done, and Admiral Polowczyk and Avi Berkowitz and others who were involved in that effort on the PPE, I want to say thank you. The Boeing Dreamliner is bringing PPE in right now that Suffolk ordered and it’s just a huge help. And the last thing I would say is this, I say to the point about not just as a member of Congress, but also as a military veteran, thank you.
<42:07>
I’ll also say as a Jewish veteran, what happened to me when I was with you on Normandy and many others who support you, and it happened again this morning when I put out a message about today being the 75th anniversary of V.E. Day. I got attacked as a Jew for supporting you and the things that they were saying about you was so highly offensive to me. And there’s never been a president ever who’s had the back of Jews in this country and around the world like you have. And whether it was moving the embassy in Israel to Jerusalem and signing the Taylor Force Act into law and recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, but most importantly, fighting antisemitism here at home.
<42:55>
When I see them attacking me and attacking you, especially attacking you and your team when you are all in more than any other president, not just delivering on your own campaign promises, but doing what’s right and delivering on the promises of presidents in the past, I just want to say thank you. And the Speaker, we all should be in the same foxhole right now, with our rifles pointed in the same direction. And we’re all hearing the same foxhole view with our rifles pointing in the same direction but unfortunately, while you recognize that the enemy is coronavirus, the Speaker believes that the enemy is you. And I believe that’s really important for the Speaker to look around this room right now of people who serve in the House of Representatives who want to work today, are in Washington today, that she used to get her conference back here to fight for the American public as hard as we do. And I thank you for your leadership on all accounts and delivering for New York in what truly was a phenomenal way.
