<31:50>
Well, Mr. President, I know I speak for you, but I just want to thank all of you. We’re setting the example and coming back to Washington D.C. It’s time that we send a message to the American people that we’re open for business, we’re ready to get back and we’re ready to support a president who’s been willing to take the bold moves each and every day to make sure that America’s first. So thank you for allowing me to serve and thank all of you.
<01:09:10>
We’ve already put in a few protocols that we’re looking at, obviously, to make sure that the president and his immediate staff stay safe. It’s not just the president, it’s all the workers that are here. Obviously, you’re here on a daily basis. But the protocols that we’re putting in place puts a stronger emphasis on making sure that we do the mitigation that we need to do to make sure they’re safe. I don’t want to get into all the procedures that we have embarked upon, but I can tell you this is probably the safest place that you can come to. All of you, as you know, have to be socially distanced from the president. His meetings that he has are done with a social distancing plan in place. Outside of that, we may take some additional precautions as it relates to the vice president and the president in terms of just making sure that the people that come in contact with both of them are done… That it’s done in a way that makes sure that we keep the president safe. Additionally, every member that came here today, they were tested, just in case there’s a closer contact than we might have. But we put in some additional protocols over the last 48 hours and we’ll continue to monitor.
<01:11:41>
So I can speak to that. As we look at this, the people that are in close proximity to the president obviously have tested negative. The mask that you wear is generally to keep other people from being infected. And so as we look at that, I can tell you that the testing protocol is a strong regime, and as it gets close to the president, some of those that serve him will wear a mask in those closer proximities. Here’s what I would offer, off the record, to all of you is… I know, Jon, we spoke about this earlier. If you’ve been on the campus for your safety and wellbeing, the president has made available to make sure that you could have testing just for the peace of mind. So before you leave today we’ve made those arrangements to make sure that you can be tested as well.
