<03:50>
Thank you, Mr. President. Under the president’s leadership, my team and I at the State Department are doing our part to protect the American people from the virus and, importantly, to get them home. As you know, when many countries shut down their rail lines, their buses, their infrastructure systems, the capacity to get out of those countries, they were trapped, they were stranded, and the State Department swung into action.
<04:09>
Since January 29th, we have now repatriated over 50,000 United States citizens back to their homes from more than 90 countries, more than 490 flights back to the United States from all across the world. This worldwide scale of our repatriation efforts is without parallel in our lifetime. We are coordinating with foreign governments, militaries, airport authorities, medical units, transportation companies, hotels. You name it, we’re working with them to make sure the American people get back to be with their families. You can see behind me the map of the flights that we have brought back people from all across the world.
<04:47>
Every day, I get a chance to hear some of the remarkable stories from our team. Let me give you just a couple of examples. Our mission in Peru working with the Peruvian military and police forces to send riverboats up the river to get citizens that were stranded deep inside the Amazon forest. Our mission in Nepal made sure that a woman who was running low on medication could get what she needed at a pharmacy before boarding an evacuation flight that brought her back here. In Honduras, after the government imposed very strict 24/7 curfew and closed airports, our embassy sprang into action for stranded Americans, thousands of them. A three-year-old boy told one of our consular officers just before we boarded the flight, “Thank you for helping me get back home to my dad.” Pretty neat. We have received similar messages from lots of people. They’re proud to know that their country will not leave them stranded and we’re going to get them back home. One woman wrote, “I was in tears when I received the email approving our flight back to the United States. God bless the United States of America.” Another said, “I felt like I had allies there that actually treated me like a person or a family member, not just a number.”
<05:53>
The repatriation task force at the State Department, our consular officers have done great work. I want to thank our partners in the Department of Defense who have helped with some of these flights back home, and other government agencies, our sisters and brothers across the United States government in this administration that have helped get these people back.
<06:10>
Then, lastly, aside from our repatriation efforts, we continue to help countries around the world as well. We’ve got CDC officials helping these countries with expertise and all the things that these countries need to get their citizens safe and healthy and back so that we can get the economy all across the world, the global economy, back on its feet when this crisis is over.
<06:28>
Thank you, Mr. President.
<06:31>
Sure.
<06:51>
It’s a great question. We still have several thousand people that we’re working. They identify themselves every day. New people find themselves in a difficult place. Look, we’re going to be done when people can travel on their own again. These people traveled abroad on vacations or with their church and were intending to get back on their own. We hope that day comes pretty soon where they don’t have to rely on the State Department to get them back home.
<07:12>
But know this. In the meantime, we’re devoting all the resources we have to get them. They’re often in difficult places. They’re not in the capital near the airport or the roads are closed, and so it’s not just a matter of getting a flight down there. There’s a lot of work that has to be done to coordinate to make it all happen and get those people available so they’re sitting there when the flight lands, they can get on the plane, and then we can get them back home.
<07:33>
We still have several thousand. We’re working on it. We chip away at that number every day. But new citizens go to the State Department website, identify themselves, and say, “I need a little bit of help in some way,” and we do our best to get that to them just as quickly as we can.
<07:46>
We’re going to keep it up as long as we have resources to do it and there is a need.
<07:50>
Yes, sir?
<08:08>
The vast majority of these 50,000 weren’t our officers. These were ordinary citizens who were there traveling for business or for commercial or for their trip of a lifetime. We’ve seen some of that on the cruise ships, but of course they’re stranded all over the world.
<08:22>
Our embassies, save for the one that is in Wuhan, which we did pull everybody out of, the rest of our facilities around the world are all open. We’ve had a handful of our folks now test positive, but we feel like we have a good handle on it. We’re doing everything we can to make sure that not just the State Department officers, but our Department of Defense colleagues that are working on these missions as well, are doing so in a way that reduces risk to them and their well-being also.
<08:45>
Yes, ma’am?
<08:53>
This is not the time for retribution, but it is still the time for clarity and transparency. We’re still working on this problem set. There’s still data that these good people need so that they can perform their analysis of how to both develop therapeutics and a vaccine and to understand where this virus is.
<09:14>
Every country, China included, every country needs to be transparent about what’s gone on in their country. They need to share that data. We share ours with the world, so that the best scientists in the world can get to the right conclusions and bring this economy, this global economy back to the place that we all want it to be as quickly as we can. Every country has that responsibility.
<09:32>
It started in China, and so they had that special responsibility to get it right quickly and fast. I ask every country, as we move forward in the days and weeks ahead, make sure we share that. Do it right. Do it well. When we do, we’ll get this thing back on.
<09:47>
Every country has an obligation to share that information accurately, timely, completely, transparently, and thoroughly, just as quickly as they can gather it. We’ll leave for another time to evaluate how everyone did in that.
<10:22>
You want to say something, Mr. President?
<10:25>
At this point, we’re reevaluating our funding with respect to the World Health Organization. This is very consistent with what President Trump said since the beginning of his campaign. Organizations have to work. They have to deliver the outcomes for which they were intended. We need to make sure that not only the World Health Organization, but every international organization that we take taxpayer money and give it to them for the benefit of America, we need to make sure it’s delivering on those taxpayer dollars.
<10:53>
The World Health organization is no different in that respect. They have to execute on the mission that they are designed to achieve. We’ve seen with respect to the World Health Organization, here we are. It hasn’t accomplished what it was intended to deliver.
<11:21>
I don’t know the answer to that, but know that we’ll deliver the best medical care everyplace we can. Some of them are in difficult places where there’s not a lot of medical help, and we’ve done our best to move that medical assistance forward to them in the field.
<11:48>
With respect to our assistance to Iran, we have offered, from the first day we knew that the virus had struck the people of Iran, we offered humanitarian assistance. I regret that they chose not to take that. I’ve heard people talking about sanctions. The world should know there are no sanctions that prevent humanitarian assistance, medical supplies, pharmaceuticals from going to Iran. We offered American assistance. We’ve tried to help other countries get assistance in there as well. We’ve had some ability to do that. I don’t have any better data than what you’ve seen publicly that I can share with you with respect to the extent of the virus inside of Iran.
<12:29>
You’ve seen, we’re making sure that we have what we need for the American people, whether that’s gloves… I’ll let the vice president talk to numbers on that. But at this point, what we are doing in terms of assistance is providing what most of these countries need to learn how to do surveillance themselves, to learn how to conduct tests themselves, to learn the things that can reduce the peak in their countries. Those are the kind of things.
<12:50>
We’ve been doing this… You should know the United States has been incredibly generous. We have CDC officials, like no other country in the world, out helping these nations build out their healthcare, global epidemic healthcare infrastructure. It’s good people like that you see sitting to my right that have been working on this all their life, all around the world, putting these countries in a place where they’re better prepared for a virus like this one.
<13:21>
Not that I’m aware of. Not that I’m aware of, but there’s no doubt… I remember when we sent our team to get our officials and about 800 American non-government citizens that were living in Wuhan, I remember when we sent one of our first repatriation flights in there, we were very careful. We sent trained professionals in, but they were going into a very, very difficult, very fraught place. We were blessed; they all got back with no one having contracted the virus on that trip.
<13:46>
I’m not aware of any of our officials that have had the virus attack them while they were performing their functions trying to get people back. We have a number of State Department officials who have COVID-19 now and are working their way through. In fact, we’ve had three fatalities of local employees, not U.S. direct hires, but local people who were working for the State Department in embassies around the world. We’ve had three fatalities so far.
<14:27>
I don’t want to… Look, this is not the time to be doing that kind of change. There’ll be a lot of time to look back and see how the World Health Organization performed. In the meantime, what our task is is to preserve and protect the American taxpayers to make sure that our resources don’t go to places that aren’t going to deliver on behalf of the American people and the world. President Trump and I are determined to do that.
<15:06>
With lots of places, we’ve been cooperating. They’re providing us assistance where we need it. There are places on the ground now where we do have access to the data we need, and we’re deeply appreciative of that. They’ve said they want to cooperate. We’re completely prepared to cooperate with them. That cooperation means sharing data, being transparent, being upfront, allowing information to flow freely. That’s our expectation, not just of China, though, of every country that is in this place today. Collectively, we have to work our way through this, and to do that, you have to have really good data.
<15:40>
Great. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you all. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
<15:46>
Okay, thank you very much. In just a few days, we’ve delivered nearly 11 million N95 masks to hot spots around the country, as you know, including 6.6 million to New York and New Jersey, 1.8 million to Chicago, 1.7 million to Detroit, and 837,000 to New Orleans.
<16:07>
I spoke with the governor of Louisiana a little while ago, and they’re doing really pretty well, much better than they thought. They’ll be using fewer beds. As you know, we built a hospital. We’re about set to complete another hospital, and there’s even a possibility they won’t need it. That’s what we discussed.
<16:26>
To date, we’ve shipped out more than 8, 000 ventilators, and we have almost 10,000 sitting there ready to go should we need them. An additional 2,200 newly manufactured ventilators come online on Monday. We’re going to be sending them to various locations just in case they need them.
<16:47>
My administration is working with Philips to double their production of ventilators by May, and ultimately quadruple production by later this year, high-quality ventilators. We’re eliminating bureaucratic barriers to pave the way for Philips, major investments in American manufacturing sites and sales. This will help to ensure that our country can permanently produce enough ventilators in the future that we can do them by ourselves.
<17:15>
We’re going to have a big stockpile when we’re finished, and we expect to be sending quite a few to other countries to help them after we’re finished. Even now, a couple of countries are really, really in dire need. It looks like our projections were right on ventilators. Some states that were thinking they would need thousands of more than they thought are now already taken care of, which we’re very happy about.
<17:43>
In addition, beginning in May, we’ll be receiving almost 300 million new face masks. We’re going to have masks of about 300 million. They’ll be starting to be delivered in May and during the month of June. We’re ordering a big stockpile. We’re thinking about doing an extra 200 million, should we need them, or for the stockpile, so we’ll be in a position to have something incredible. That’ll be a total of 500 million masks.
<18:17>
Today, 750,000 new protective gowns landed in Dallas, Texas, as a result of a partnership led by the federal government, DuPont, and FedEx. That’s been a great partnership. That’s worked very well. We have 750,000 new protective gowns, and these are at a high level, very high quality.
<18:37>
As American industry steps up to help, so are America’s doctors and scientists. 10 drugs are now in clinical trials, and my administration is taking unprecedented actions to make new therapies and treatments available without delay. The doctors, the lab technicians, the companies, I spoke to them yesterday. I spoke again today. They are coming up with things that are, I think, I hope, in the very near future are going to be very, very special, very important.
<19:09>
Our national stockpile is now equipped with nearly 30 million hydroxychloroquine pills, so we’re up to about 30 million. We’re distributing them by the millions. You read about State Representative Karen Whitsett, who I very much appreciate her going public. She was, I think, very, very much helped by this pill. She saw what I was saying on television. She thought she was in very bad shape. I don’t want to go further than that. But you see her story. You know her story. She’s a highly respected state rep from Michigan, and I think she did a great service, what she’s done. She’s in terrific shape. She looks fantastic, and she was very generous with her statements. In addition, the azithromycin and zinc. They say zinc; we should add zinc now. This all has to be recommended by doctors, physicians, but they say zinc. I want to throw that out there, because that’s where they seem to be having the best result. You add the zinc and the azithromycin, and we’ve had a lot of good stories. We’ve got a lot of good stories. We have almost 30 million doses, so we’ve got a lot. I want to thank Prime Minister Modi of India for allowing us to have what we requested from before the problem arose, and he was terrific. We’ll remember it.
<20:48>
Later today, the CDC will release further guidance to help ensure critical infrastructure workers can perform their job safely after potential exposure to the virus. They’re working on that.
<21:01>
The question was asked a little while ago about the World Health Organization. As you know, they made a statement on January 14th, I guess it was, that there was no human-to-human transmission. Well, there was. They probably made that statement in the second or third week of December, in addition, but they made it very powerfully on January 14th. They criticized me very strongly when I said that we’re going to shut down flights coming in from China, and especially from certain parts of China, but from China generally. We were criticized very badly.
<21:40>
Last year, and for many years, hundreds of millions of dollars has been paid to the World Health Organization, hundreds of millions of dollars a year. Last year was $452 million, and China paid $42 million. Before that, it was $500 million, and China paid less than $40 million. Before that, it was similar numbers, in the 400s, 300s, and sometimes even in the 500s of millions of dollars, and China would do proportionally just a small fraction of that number.
<22:22>
I think they have to get their priorities right. Their priorities are that everybody has to be treated properly, every country, and it doesn’t seem that way, does it? Doesn’t seem that way. So we’re going to do study, investigation, and we’re going to make a determination as to what we’re doing. In the meantime, we’re holding back. We want to see. Very unfair.
<22:46>
The United States, $452 million compared to $42 million. That’s to the World Health Organization. That’s not good. That’s not good. Not fair. Not fair at all. Other countries, as you know, also gave very substantially less than the United States.
<23:07>
The WHO, World Health, got it wrong. They got it very wrong. In many ways, they were wrong. They also minimized the threat very strongly. Not good.
<23:21>
I want to take this opportunity to express the thanks of an extremely grateful nation to the Americans who go to work every day, especially in these critical industries in the midst of the pandemic, to care for and protect and feed American people, including medical personnel, law enforcement, first responders, food suppliers, sanitation workers. Somebody mentioned today, would you please specifically call out cashiers and clerks at grocery stores who are in during the pandemic, during the epidemic? They’re in danger. They are really in great danger. They’ve been incredible, and I want to call them out, cashiers and clerks.
<24:08>
We grew up with cashiers and clerks in grocery stores, and they’ve been great. They’ve really been true American heroes. I want to call them out, because they’re working hard and they’re working in conditions that aren’t ideal. But soon, they’ll be ideal again.
<24:23>
As we mourn the terrible loss of life from this grave pandemic, we’re seeing signs that our aggressive strategy to slow the spread is working. The number of new cases is stabilizing. The number of beds necessary in so many locations… I was watching, this morning, New York. I was watching Louisiana. You see what’s going on. The numbers are changing, and they’re changing rapidly. Soon we’ll be over that curve. We’ll be over the top, and we’ll be headed in the right direction. I feel strongly about that.
<24:59>
Some terrible days ahead, but we’re going to have some wonderful days ahead. We’re going to get this behind us, this terrible thing behind us. Some people will never be able to forget, if they had a loved one, if they had a great friend or a friend, but we’re going to get it behind us.
<25:17>
This is a tribute to the discipline and the devotion of the American people, what we’ve accomplished. If every American continues to strictly adhere to social distancing guidelines, we can defeat the invisible enemy and save countless lives, and we can do it much more quickly. We are hopefully heading toward a final stretch, the light at the end of the tunnel, as I was saying.
<25:42>
As we continue to wage all-out medical war to defeat the virus, we’re also fighting an economic war to ensure we can quickly turn to full financial strength. We have to get our country back. We have to get going. Everybody wants to get going.
<25:59>
Yesterday, I asked Congress to provide an additional $250 billion to expand the incredibly successful Paycheck Protection Program. You’ve seen what’s gone on there. It’s incredible, actually, which is allowing our small businesses to keep employees on the payroll and get ready for the opening, like a second opening.
<26:18>
To protect millions of American jobs, I’m asking Congress to pass additional funding for this program this week as soon as possible. I think we have pretty good understanding with the Democrats. Hopefully, it’s going to be bipartisan. We do not have time for the partisan games, and we don’t want that, the obstruction or totally unrelated agendas. We want to do this for the small businesses and the workers. We can do a phase four, and a phase four will be later. This will be an expansion of what we’ve already done because it’s so successful. The $350 billion will be expanded by, hopefully, 250. If you look at the kind of loans, tens of thousands of loans to small businesses, it’s a great thing to see.
