<05:48>
Thank you Mr. President. And it’s a privilege to sit with you and be able to reflect on this day on the efforts this administration has made over the last three and a half years to protect our seniors, make sure they’re financially secure, and also see to the health and wellbeing of our senior citizens. From the time you tapped me to lead the White House Coronavirus Task Force, we knew that seniors with serious underlying health conditions represented the most vulnerable to serious outcomes from the coronavirus. It was the reason why early on, at your direction Mr. President, we raised the infectious disease standards at every nursing home in America, and we deployed all 8,000 of our inspectors across the country to focus exclusively on infectious diseases. And in addition to all the measures that you just reflected on, delivering personal protective equipment to the more than 15,000 nursing homes, dramatically expanding telehealth, we’ve continued to work closely with governors to focus on longterm care in nursing homes and our seniors. People across the country have looked after family members who are senior citizens with vulnerable conditions. And we urge them to continue to do that even as we have made steady progress each and every day toward putting the coronavirus farther and farther in the past. Mr. President, there’s been much reported in the news as you reflected about increased cases in some states. Our team has been working with governors over the past week. We’re carefully analyzing those new cases and we really believe that the vast majority of new cases is a reflection, as you said, of a dramatic increase in testing. Governor Newsom in California told me that on Saturday alone, California performed 78,000 tests all across the state. And yet in the state of California, their hospitalization numbers remain flat. Their positivity numbers remain flat. And in those areas where, just a few states where we’re seeing positive rates go up, we’ll be talking to governors today in states like Georgia and Arizona and Texas about deploying additional CDC personnel to help them identify where those outbreaks are occurring and how we can mitigate those efforts.
<08:15>
But because of what the American people did over those 45 days to slow the spread, Mr. President, each and every day, we are demonstrating that we can safely reopen. All 50 states and our territories are now opening up America again. But as the theme of this conversation is, it’s important that we continue to focus resources on those that are vulnerable. Even while we see overall across the country cases going down, hospitalizations going down, and most importantly our mortality rate is going down all across America. Now we’re going to continue to focus with our governors on making sure that we deploy testing to our longterm care facilities and to our nursing homes. We’ll be speaking with all the nation’s governors in just a short while today, Mr. President, to continue that effort. Because we’re going to put the interest of all of America first, but as we move into this next stage and through the summer, putting the Corona virus in the past each and every day, we’re going to focus on ensuring that our seniors and all of those most vulnerable are protected.
<45:26>
Certainly Mr. President. President and I both spoken to Governor Kevin Stitt in the last several days. And even earlier today, and Oklahoma has really been in the forefront of our efforts to slow the spread and in a very real sense, they flattened the curve and today their hospital capacity is abundant. The number of cases in Oklahoma has declined precipitously, and we feel very confident going forward. And with the rally this coming weekend, we’re working closely with the governor. We’ll have measures in place to be screening people coming in to the facilities. But Oklahoma’s really led the way in demonstrating that we’d safely reopen. And so as we gather to hear from the President and hear about the stakes in this election, we’ll also be celebrating a state that’s demonstrated every day that you can put health first and open up and do all those things at the same time.
<46:37>
Well. It’s really remarkable, Mr. President. With more than 22 million tests having been performed across the country, we continue to see overall that the what’s called the positive test rate remains very stable in the country. As we said earlier, Mr. President, there’s a few states where the positivity rate is climbing and we’re working very closely with those governors to identify that. You mentioned that in the state of Texas, there was one county where there were literally three prisons that had individual outbreaks that accounted for literally hundreds of new cases in a single day. We’re also seeing in Imperial County, California, Americans who may live on the opposite side of the border in Mexico, coming home and that showing up in some of their numbers. But overall, the American people, I think are to be commended, Mr. President. That because of the steps they’ve taken and continue to take, we’re demonstrating that we could safely reopen and where we saw corona virus positive cases six weeks ago, over 30,000.
<47:52>
Now it’s averaged in recent weeks, roughly 20,000 new cases a day. As I said, the positivity rate remains flat. Hospitalizations for coronavirus are declining all over the country. And most importantly, our fatality rate continues over a seven day average to continue to decline. President’s always quick to say one loss of life is too many. But when we think about a matter of a month and a half ago, when we were losing 2,500 Americans a day, now that we see the numbers declining so precipitously, I think it’s a real tribute to our healthcare workers, tribute to every American that has demonstrated each and every day that we can reopen our country, but we can continue to put the health particularly of our most vulnerable first.
<48:53>
According to some public reporting, Mr. President, and I’ll have more details later this afternoon, less than 400 fatalities yesterday, all across the country.
