<28:17>
Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force have met this morning. And on this very first day of spring, we continue to make steady progress toward President Trump’s objective, not only to marshal all the resources of the federal government, every state government, every local health official, but also to harness the power of the American private sector and activities over the last day reflect all of those priorities.
<28:45>
Yesterday, the president spoke with America’s top physicians and nurses and garnered helpful insights about how we can best serve those who are serving Americans that are dealing with the coronavirus. We also had a productive call with over 5,000 state and local officials explaining the federal government’s approach and our strong and seamless partnership with all 50 States and the territories.
<29:11>
Last night, as you heard, the president signed the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, which provides free coronavirus testing, paid sick leave, family leave for caregivers and food assistance for the needy among a broad range of benefits. And today, as the president indicated, we expect that the Senate will begin work on an economic relief package.
<29:32>
Later today, the president and I will meet again in a teleconference with the nation’s governors. We will meet at the National Response Coordination Center at FEMA and outline President Trump’s decision to have FEMA take the lead in our national coronavirus response. Our nation’s response through FEMA will be locally executed, state-managed and federally supported.
<29:59>
On testing, we want the American people to know once again, that testing is available in all 50 States and is becoming increasingly available literally every hour of the day. Because of the public private partnership that the president initiated several weeks ago with major commercial labs, I’m pleased to receive a report today that tens of thousands of tests are being performed every day. And with the passage of last night’s legislations, that state and private labs are now required by law to report all coronavirus testing directly to the CDC, which will give the American public and also give our researchers timely and important information.
<30:39>
It’s important for every American to remember that if you don’t have symptoms, you don’t need to get a test. We want to make sure that testing is available for people that are experiencing symptoms or have a genuine concern about having been exposed to someone with the coronavirus.
<30:54>
Dr. Birx will address county level data as well as the progress we’ve made on testing and Americans can expect to see how an increased number of cases as our new testing system comes online, it should not be a cause of concern. She’ll explain the importance of taking into account our new testing system as new data arrives over the next several days.
<31:16>
On supplies, a priority the president has given to our task force, we continue to work with healthcare providers, businesses, and state leadership to identify available supplies not merely in the federal stockpile, but much more importantly available across the private sector.
<31:34>
We’re encouraged to see companies like Honeywell and 3M, that I visited a few short weeks ago, take advantage of the changes in the law last night that allow the sale of industrial masks directly to hospitals. Those companies have now greatly increased, by the tens of millions, their production of so-called N95 masks that will give our healthcare workers the protection that they need to minister to those that are dealing with the symptoms or the disease of coronavirus. I’m following the signing of last night’s bill. All of those masks now have liability protection and the companies can sell industrial masks to hospitals.
<32:16>
It is encouraging, as we called out yesterday, to see construction companies all across America that are, as we speak, checking their supplies and donating those industrial masks to their local hospitals. And I know I speak on behalf of the president who spent a lot of time as a builder when we thank builders across America for partnering with our local healthcare officials.
<32:38>
On the subject of ventilators, we’re working with healthcare providers around America and suppliers and we are encouraged to learn that we’ve literally identified tens of thousands of ventilators that can be converted to treat patients. And we remain increasingly confident that we will have the ventilators that we need as the coronavirus makes its way across America.
<33:04>
And as we said before, we’re all in this together. And before I step away and give the podium back to the president and to Dr. Birx, I want to call every American’s attention again to the president’s 15 Days to Slow the Spread. We continue to hear one case after another, one city after another where people are putting into practice the principles that the president outlined this Monday. And make no mistake about it, that while for the American people as a whole, the risk of serious illness remains low, these guidelines should be practiced by every American in every community, not only to lessen the spread of the coronavirus, but to protect the most vulnerable among us.
<33:48>
And I think Americans with their, with, from their hearts are not only practicing these principles of social distancing and avoiding social gatherings of more than 10 people, using drive-thrus at restaurants, to protect their own health and the health of their family, but they’re also recognizing that no American wants to inadvertently convey the coronavirus to someone for whom the consequences could be quite serious.
<34:13>
At the president’s direction, we’ll continue to marshal all the resources of government at every level. We’ll be reiterating that strong partnership with America’s States this afternoon and with America’s governors, pulling all of the private sector energy together, the innovation that you just heard described. I know, on this first day of spring, that we’ll get through this and we’ll get through this together. Thank you, Mr. President.
<42:50>
Yeah, I’m happy to Mr. President. I can’t emphasize enough the incredible progress that was made with the passage of the legislation last night. The president had me go to Minnesota and meet with 3M that manufacturers these N95 masks a few weeks ago. And we learned of their production at that facility of 35 million masks a month. Less than five million of those were qualified to be sold to hospitals. So the president worked with Republican and Democrat leadership. We’ve extended the liability protection, so now that all the industrial masks that are manufactured as N95s are now available to hospitals.
<43:26>
And we’re seeing a dramatic increase in production. Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory that was destined for Mexico to produce another 120 million masks per year. 3M is increasing output to 420 million masks per year. We’ve put a priority, at the president’s direction, on making sure those that are providing healthcare services to America have the protection to keep themselves and their families safe. And with the legislation last night, with the incredible response among these great private sector companies and as we mentioned repeatedly, with construction companies around America heeding the president’s call to donate their industrial masks to hospitals, it’s happening all over America, we know we’ll meet that need.
Reporter #3: <44:11>
But, when will those be ready? <crosstalk 00:44:12> Isn’t that kind of <crosstalk 00:44:13> sad they have to use a ban…
<44:18>
Well, as I mentioned, 3M is increasing their output to 420 million a year. At the production in January, they make 35 million per month at that facility. We are prioritizing the distribution of those.
<44:34>
But the other thing, and we’ll emphasize this with governors this afternoon, is we’re working with governors to make sure that the healthcare providers, the hospitals and the clinics in their state are placing orders now that this tremendous increase in supply, particularly with industrial masks, is now available. We’re going to make sure they understand that the supply has greatly expanded thanks to a bipartisan legislation and the accomplishment of the president and the response by these companies is making more masks available. And we’re going to make sure healthcare providers are purchasing those and the federal government will also make sure that our stockpile is properly reflects those increases as well.
<45:21>
They’re available now. The 3M facility that I was at told me that in January they went to full production on 35 million masks. The legislative change means that all 35 million of those that started to be produced at full capacity in January can now be sold to hospitals. That’s the distinction here. It’s a very important change and it’s part of the way the president has been engaging the private sector and pushing the kind of regulatory reform and the kind of liability reform that has greatly expanded the availability of masks, so they’re in the marketplace now.
<45:55>
We’re going to make it clear to governors as we made it clear to healthcare providers in conference calls yesterday that those resources are now there. We’ve vastly increased the supply of medical masks and we’re going to continue to put a priority on making sure that we’re calling on industry at every level, calling on major suppliers that the president met with this week, to make sure that those personal protective equipment are there for our healthcare workers.
