<57:06>
Thank you all a few updates and then I’ll introduce Dr. Deborah Birx to talk about what we’re seeing around the country, what the data is telling us. But suffice it to say as the president said several times, this is a very tough week in America and our hearts go out to all of the families that have lost loved ones to the coronavirus. But I know I speak for the entire white house coronavirus task force when I say our hearts are with the people of the greater New York city area today. As we stand here today in the midst of heartbreaking numbers of losses in New York city, I also want to assure the American people that there’s reason for hope.
<58:02>
As Dr. Birx will enumerate in just a few moments, despite the increase in losses as governor Cuomo articulated today, hospital admissions continue to decline. And in our report early this morning from Dr. Birx, we continue to see evidence of stabilization in some of the areas around the country of the most significant outbreak, the New York Metro area, including New Jersey, Long Island and Connecticut. New Orleans Metro area, Detroit, Boston, Chicago and Denver as Dr. Birx will explain, continue to give evidence of stabilization. Which in a very real sense is evidence that the American people are putting into practice the social distancing, the president’s guidelines for our nation. And for that as the president said earlier today we thank the American people.
<59:12>
Even in the midst of hardship and loss at a time when we’ve seen more than 385,000 Americans test positive for the coronavirus and more than 12,000 succumb to this illness. The evidence that Dr. Birx will describe to you will show that the American people know our future is in our hands. And so as I begin allow me just simply to continue to urge every American to put into practice the guidance you’re receiving from your state and local authorities. Take it to heart, take it seriously, share it with your family and your friends and know that you’re making a difference America because you truly are. Today for my part, I spoke to over 500 small business owners in a conference call and there I heard about their enthusiasm for the paycheck protection program. And that call took place before the president had the secretary of treasury indicate our interest in acquiring another $250 billion for that program. As of this morning, more than $60 billion in forgivable loans that would cover two months of paychecks with small businesses had already been distributed and the number is going to grow literally by the day.
<01:00:34>
But we also had a very productive call today with some other American heroes. We all have in our hearts and in our minds our healthcare workers and I’ll speak for a moment about the supplies and resources that we’re working to provide for all of them. But right below our healthcare workers are all the people that are working in critical infrastructure around the country and some of the most important people are working in food supply. I mean from the farmers and the ranchers to our processors, to our distributors, to our truckers, to our grocers. Americans are keeping food on the table for our fellow Americans. And let me begin by just saying what I said to some of the most prominent CEOs of meat and grain industry companies in the country.
<01:01:24>
Companies like Tyson foods and Hormel today, not just these companies, but to all the hardworking people working in food supply today, thank you. Thank you for what you’re doing to keep those grocery store shelves stocked. Thank you for showing up for work every day and working hard to keep that food supply rolling in America. It was more than five weeks ago that the president brought in all the grocery store leaders in the country and there he received a commitment that no grocery store in America would close and they haven’t. But it’s been these heroic Americans from the farm to the fork that have made it possible for Americans to have one less worry and they are truly inspiring heroes. Now that being said, I did hear from the industry today that there have been reports of some plants having reduced capacity because of people having concerns about exposure to the coronavirus.
<01:02:23>
In fact over the last several days there’s been some incidents of worker absenteeism and some plants have actually been forced to close temporarily. And so on behalf of the president, on behalf of our entire team and on behalf of a grateful nation, let me just say to all of you that are working in the food industry at every level across the country, just understand that you are vital. You are giving a great service to the people of the United States of America and we need you to continue as a part of what we call our critical infrastructure to show up and do your job. And know that we’re going to continue to work tirelessly working with all of your companies to make sure that that workplace is safe. With that being said let me talk about the other heroes that we always mentioned at this podium today that Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci invariably mentioned that’s our healthcare workers.
<01:03:16>
At the president’s direction we’ve been working tirelessly, literally around the clock to identify resources around the country and around the world to make sure our healthcare workers have the support that they need. With some 51 major disaster declarations, most recently Minnesota being approved. States have stood up 27,000 national guard, but personnel wise before the end of business today there will be more than 3000 department of defense and health and human service medical personnel on the ground in the greater New York city area. And those people will be redeployed once that region of the country moves through the coronavirus epidemic in that area. And we salute those extraordinary patriotic Americans for stepping forward to bring real relief to our healthcare workers. With regard to equipment, Admiral Polowczyk reported to the task force throughout the course of the day today that we have continued to distribute ventilators across the country. We’re sending additional ventilators from the strategic national stockpile.
<01:04:25>
Maryland will receive 50 ventilators. Delaware will receive 50 ventilators and that will leave more than 8,400 ventilators still in the national stockpile. One correction from yesterday after our press briefing yesterday, FEMA made a different decision with regard to what the state of California generously made available and the ventilators some 500 ventilators that we again want to thank governor Gavin Newsome and the people of California for donating to our nation’s efforts. 100 of those are being deployed to New York, 100 to New Jersey, 100 to Illinois, 50 to Maryland, 50 to Washington DC, 50 to Delaware and 50 to Nevada. With regard to the remainder of what we call personal protective equipment. Again, we’ve been literally leaving no stone unturned anywhere in the country or anywhere around the world and as Admiral Polowczyk described just a couple of days ago, we’ve established not just an air bridge but a control tower system modeled after military logistics out of FEMA.
<01:05:37>
And while FEMA is acquiring a small portion of what’s being acquired, 90% of the supplies are being routed directly into our massive distribution system and FEMA is using the data that Dr. Birx provides to target those resources to the areas most in need. I ask them to break out a few details about resources that just in the last five days have been distributed and I hope it’s an encouragement to healthcare workers all across these regions and around the country about the efforts that are being made to make sure they have what they need. You can see the New York Metro area including New Jersey just in the last five days, more than six million N95 masks, more than six million surgical masks. When governor Cuomo and I last spoke, he told me there was a real challenge for medical gowns in the New York city area and in New Jersey as well and 2.8 million gowns were distributed to that region as well.
<01:06:42>
Going next to New Orleans where again while we see some encouragement, challenges remain in that community. Some 837,000 N95 masks for healthcare workers, 165 surgical masks, other items including almost 6 million gloves have been distributed. Detroit continues to be a real focal point. We’re working closely with governor Gretchen Whitmer as well as mayor Mike Duggan to meet the needs of healthcare workers in Detroit. Just in the last five days 1.6 million N95 masks had been routed into the healthcare system in Detroit, nearly 700,000 surgical masks and 24 million gloves just as a portion of what’s displayed. And in the Chicago Metro area, which we continue to focus on each and every day, more than 1.7 million N95 masks have been routed into their healthcare system, 900,000 surgical masks, 25 million gloves. I share these details in the hopes that healthcare workers looking on will be encouraged.
<01:07:50>
At the president’s direction we are making every effort to make sure you have the resources you need to do your job, to do it safely and to go home safe to your family even while you provide that extraordinary and courageous care that our healthcare workers are providing literally around the clock in the midst of the coronavirus challenge. The last slide is just the cumulative numbers that we have distributed and I’m happy in a few moments to answer any questions about that. Again, the system that we have in place is one that is essentially infusing our major distribution networks with millions of items and then FEMA is directing on a day by day and oftentimes hour by hour basis where those resources are most needed. And we’ll continue to do that as the coronavirus makes its way through these communities and through communities that are very much on our watch list today.
<01:08:53>
And let me just lastly say that again I want to thank the American people for stepping up and doing your part. We continue to be overwhelmed with one story after another where people are doing social distancing, where people are looking after one another or where they’re checking in with a phone call to an elderly friend, a family member to make sure they’re okay. I mean we are on the front end of a 30 days to slow the spread and I will tell you as a non-scientist up here that I see glimmers of hope in the early numbers that we’re seeing come out of the greater New York city area, New Jersey, even New Orleans and Detroit and Chicago.
<01:09:36>
There does appear to be as Dr. Birx Will explain in more detail, it does appear to be evidence of leveling, evidence of progress. But this is exactly the time for all of us to redouble our efforts to do everything each and every one of us can. Not just to protect our own health and that of our family and our loved ones, but to do our part to ensure that we lessen the impact of the coronavirus on America as a whole. But even more importantly that we lessen the impact on lives by ensuring that we do our part to make sure that no one that is vulnerable is unnecessarily exposed to this virus. With that let me yield to Dr. Birx and then Seema Verma and Dr. Fauci and we’ll take all your questions.
<01:18:32>
And we have a Seema Verma with center for Medicaid, Medicare services will discuss what we’ve done to support hospitals. As we support healthcare workers we’re going to make sure the institutions that are providing the environment for care are well financed and she’s got a couple of funding streams and help is on the way, Seema.
<01:23:01>
Dr. Fauci, please.
<01:24:56>
Questions for our panel please?
<01:25:15>
Well, I’m going to let Dr. Birx speak about what’s happening in California and Washington because it is a real credit to the people of both states and the leadership of both states to see the progress that we’ve made. We continue to witness that the numbers where the outbreak began, we all remember when this first emerged in the Seattle area. The numbers continue to be steady and low. And what we’ve seen the governor of California do, what we saw the governor of Washington State do and the governor of Oregon where the coronavirus hasn’t arrived to a large extent in Oregon, I think is in keeping with the highest tradition of the American spirit. They are understanding what I think Americans are understanding more and more that while we tend to think of this as one large curve in our minds for when it began in our country and we long for the day that it will end and we want to hasten that day by putting into practice all of these mitigation efforts, that the reality is what these experts have explained to this lay person is that what we’re actually going to witness is a number of small curves that will cumulatively mean that curve.
<01:26:33>
And for Oregon, for Washington State, for California to recognize where the need is and then to partner with us and FEMA to make sure the resources are there at the time and the need of the point of the need I think is really inspiring. But Dr. Birx, do you want to speak to that?
<01:31:50>
And the team’s actually meeting tonight to review that. But one of the data points that we review is literally on a state by state basis what the turnaround time is for testing, and we continue to work that. And these Abbott Laboratory devices, there’s 18,000 of them across the country. When you go to your doctor office and get a strep test, it’s that device. All Abbott Laboratories has done with strong and swift efforts of the FDA is create a test to put in that for the coronavirus and it’s a 15 minute test. I want to renew our call all the healthcare providers around the country is find your Abbott device and we’ll work our hearts out to get a test to you. How about in the back corner.
<01:32:58>
Well, the one thing I can assure you is that the president’s decision in that regard is going to be informed by what the data shows and about decisions about when we can responsibly reopen America and put America back to work. I can tell you the CDC will have new guidance tomorrow that the CDC will be publishing for people who were in proximity to an individual that tested positive for coronavirus but have no symptoms. And CDC will be publishing new guidance about how those individuals and the circumstances under which they might be able to return back to work using some facial protection and monitoring their temperature. But we’ll detail that for you.
<01:33:42>
But what we’re going to be doing over the weeks ahead is while we focus every day at the point of the need, as the president said many times, our first mission is to save lives and that means to slow the spread, bend the curve, to continue to engage the American people, which they are admirably doing to continue to put all the social distancing into practice. But there is a dual track that the president has already initiated. Some of the best minds here at the White House are beginning to think about what recommendations will look like that we give to businesses, that we give to states. But it’ll all, I promise you, be informed on putting the health and well being of the American people first. Dr. Birx.
<01:35:02>
Can I say a word on behalf of teachers since I’m married to one? My wife was all day yesterday at the elementary school she teaches at loading up about 500 bins of art supplies for kids. And she’s just one of millions of teachers across this country who find themselves having to distance teach kids. And I’m proud of Karen, but related to that I’m proud of every teacher in this country. Secretary of Education was here not long ago talking about our efforts to expand distance learning resources, even in K through 12. To all the teachers who are out there, we just want to say thank you. Thank you for what you’re doing for continuing learning even in this challenging time and to all of the kids, just because you’re home doesn’t mean you don’t to do your schoolwork. Keep it up.
<01:35:56>
What I will tell you is I’ll yield to the health experts, but that’ll be part of what we’re looking at in terms of guidance going forward. Whether it be summer school or whether it be returning to school next fall. But the most important thing we can do is put this epidemic behind us as quickly as possible.
<01:40:31>
How about one more.
<01:41:46>
The taskforce has assigned that to several members of the team, we’re assembling that data now. It is a great concern for us, but it’s probably a good reminder that we have to be especially careful around people with serious underlying health conditions. Because we’ve said it many times from this podium over many weeks, that the risk of serious illness from the coronavirus remains low for the average American.
<01:42:21>
Before anyone from any community that has a serious underlying health condition, particularly senior citizens with serious underlying health conditions. The risk of tragedy is very real. And so we’re going to be very diligent about studying this and providing information and guidance in accordance with our best scientists.
<01:42:48>
But I do want to say to each and every American, the president’s coronavirus guidelines for America about wash your hands if you’re sick, stay home. If you can work from home, if you’re not in critical infrastructure, like our incredible healthcare workers or all those heroic people working to keep food on the shelves at our grocery stores and keeping medicine at the pharmacies. We ask you to work from home if you can. Avoid unnecessary travel, avoid gatherings of more than 10 people. Use a drive through at a restaurant. Don’t go in the restaurant.
<01:43:26>
Not just to protect your health, but to protect those of every community, of every background in this country who may have underlying conditions that make them susceptible to tragic outcomes. That’s how we can all do our part to slow the spread and to protect our most vulnerable. And the American people are doing it. And as we continue to do that, we will hasten the day that we put the coronavirus in the past and we reopen America and put America back to work. Thank you all. We’ll see you tomorrow.
