<32:15>
That’s correct.
<32:19>
Thank you, Mr. President. The White House Coronavirus Task Force met this morning, and we continue at the president’s direction to bring the full resources, not just of the federal government, but in full partnership with our state governments, businesses around America, and a partnership with the American people to respond to the threat of the coronavirus.
<32:40>
I know I can speak on behalf of the president with confidence when I say how inspired we are by the way the American people and American businesses are coming together to help defeat this virus in our country. Millions of Americans are putting into practice the president’s 15-day guidelines, and we encourage everyone, even those that are not in areas with significant outbreak, to review these guidelines over the next week and more and put them into practice, and you’ll continue to do your part.
<33:15>
Later today we’ll be talking with manufacturers around the country, and the president and I continue to be inspired by the way American industry is stepping forward. We have businesses around the country that are literally volunteering to retrofit plants to help us meet the needs of our healthcare workers and our healthcare system in confronting the coronavirus.
<33:36>
As the president mentioned yesterday, following his decision to put FEMA in the lead, the emergency declaration, we actually met with all the nation’s governors from the FEMA National Response Coordination Center. The president and I, our entire team at the federal level, couldn’t be more grateful for the efforts of our governors in implementing the guidance that is being issued not only from our task force but also in taking strong measures in their own communities to protect their citizens. We want to urge every American to heed your local authorities, listen to their guidance, and also do your part to slow the spread.
<34:17>
We reiterated to all of the governors that the president, by putting FEMA in the lead, will continue to implement a plan that is locally executed, state managed, and federally supported that puts the health of America first.
<34:32>
We received a report today, as the president mentioned, on our legislative team on Capitol Hill. We’re working with Republicans and Democrats at this very hour to pass an economic recovery package that the president described. We hope to see the Congress act on that early next week.
<34:51>
On the subject of supplies, we continue to make steady progress on testing. Thanks to the president’s involvement of commercial labs, the public and private partnership, more and more Americans are being tested every single day. Tomorrow, Admiral Giroir and FEMA will update the American public on the status of testing and our support of state-based testing efforts that are literally expanding by the hour.
<35:16>
On the subject of medical supplies, we continue at the president’s direction to pursue every means to expand the supply of personal protective equipment for the extraordinary and courageous healthcare workers that are ministering to the needs of people impacted by the coronavirus. We have a policy of procuring, allocating, as well as conserving the resources that we have in our system.
<35:42>
Now that the president worked with the Congress to make industrial masks fully available for hospitals to be able to purchase to be able to use as protective equipment, we’re more encouraged than ever about the availability of those important N95 masks to our healthcare facilities. Over this weekend we’ll be announcing a major procurement from the federal government of N95 masks as well.
<36:08>
We’re also encouraged that we’re finding new alternatives to increase the supply of ventilators. We’ve mentioned that we have a federal stockpile, some 20,000 ventilators on standby, but that doesn’t count the tens of thousands of ventilators that are in our healthcare system around the country. The president has challenged us to work to free up other ventilators from other sources around the country. There are two different ways that we’re doing that.
<36:36>
Number one, in our recent discussion with the anesthesiologists, we’ve literally identified tens of thousands of existing ventilators that can be retrofitted and converted to be ventilators for people struggling with the coronavirus. Also, on the president’s behalf and behalf of all of our task force, we want to continue to urge every American and every American hospital and healthcare facility to postpone any elective medical procedures. This will free up bed space, free up hospital capacity for people that are struggling with the coronavirus, and it’ll also free up equipment that our healthcare workers need.
<37:18>
It is inspiring that we continue to receive reports as businesses around America are donating N95 masks to their local hospitals. Businesses large and small are donating hundreds, in some cases millions, of N95 masks. I know how grateful the president is, and we all are.
<37:36>
Let me close by saying, as all of our experts have said many times, while the threat of serious illness to the average American from the coronavirus remains low, every American can do your part to reduce the burden on your health, on your family, the burden on our healthcare system, and especially the threat to the most vulnerable among us by putting into practice the president’s 15 days to slow the spread. As the president said at the outset of his remarks, I know that millions of Americans are doing that just now, and the greatness of the American character is shining for it.
<01:34:38>
I just can’t emphasize enough about the incredible progress that we have made on testing. All of your reporting and media outlets around the country are as well, that many, many more tests are being performed every day, literally by the tens of thousands. And this has only been made possible because several weeks ago the president brought in the commercial labs, these enormous companies, Quest and Lab Corp working with companies like Kroche and Abbott Laboratories and Thermo Fisher and said, we have this existing system of state laboratories and the CDC processing tests for certain infections, but given the magnitude of this outbreak, the president apprehended early on that it wouldn’t be enough to meet the need and I just want every American to know that literally hour by hour, in partnership with these extraordinary commercial labs, we are making more and more tests available everyday. We’ll detail the way that we’re working with States to distribute those tests.
<01:35:47>
We’ve obviously focused on States that have been dealing with the most serious outbreaks of Coronavirus, Washington state, California, New York and others. We’ve been making sure the tests are in those areas, working closely with those governors, but I think the American people should be encouraged at the progress that we are making. Tomorrow we’ll take some time to detail that progress for you, but I would say to any American who might be concerned that they have symptoms, as the president said so well, we don’t want every healthy American to get a test, but if people feel that they have symptoms that they identify with the Coronavirus, call your doctor, their doctor can call their state health authorities that can work very closely with our entire team through HHS and FEMA and work to identify the more and more tests that are available every day.
