<57:24>
Mr. President. Mike Johnson. Thanks for having us today. We’ve been anxious to get back to the Hill. And we wish we could be in the house doing our regular work, and hopefully we’ll get back to that. I represent two important groups today. One is the resilient, hardworking people of Louisiana. We’ve had a tough run here. I mean the pandemic hit is pretty hard, and then of course we’ve got the crisis in the oil and gas market, and we’re going to recover from that. But the people there are soundly behind you. And so many of them always telling me when they don’t back here to give you their regards, and their encouragement, and their thanks for what you’re doing. Your principal leadership. I would echo what’s going on in Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Louisiana as well. Our governor is keeping us shut down. And our free market needs a chance to thrive, and if we can do that we will.
<58:07>
It needs to be a region by region basis. The second group, I’m here I guess representing this morning is the Republican Study Committee, you know the largest caucus of conservatives in Congress. And as the chair of that group, all these guys are leaders of it as well and we’ve been trying to advance our core principles. And we came out Monday last, with a 37 point blueprint, a framework, that we call a return to prosperity and accountability, and recovery. And basically what we’ve done is distilled the work that we have been putting into about 15 months prior to the pandemic to come up with a playbook. A conservative playbook to run when we returned to the majority, which we still think we could do. But <inaudible 00:58:44> for example, for holding China accountable all the way to empowering the American worker. And we think it’s consistent with a lot of the administration and what you’ve articulated, and we hope we can work together on it.
<58:55>
I would end with this. The whole team, your whole administration has been so accessible, and transparent. I love what Dan said. I had written those two words down before you said it, that marks the Trump administration. And I could name each one of them on your team here. They’ve all been helpful and grateful to us. We had a conference call with Mr Kudlow the other day and he said something at the end of it that resonated with me. He said, “Our time tested principles can not be abandoned now. That’s what’s going to guide us through this.” Right? And we were on mute, but we all said, “Amen.” And it reminded me of what Reagan said in his farewell address when he was leaving historic time at the head of the country. He said, “They call me the great communicator, but I wasn’t that.”
<59:31>
He said, “I was just communicating great things. And they’re the same great things that have guided our country since its founding.” We believe in those time honored principles. We believe in individual freedom, and limited government, and fiscal responsibility, and free markets, and lower taxes and less regulation. Those are the things that are going to guide the country back in this transition you’re talking about. And we’re so grateful that you and your team are holding the line on that. We’ll be with you. We’re your foot soldiers ready to go to work, and we thank you again for all you’re doing.
