<40:15>
Well, thank you all. Report on today’s action by the White House Coronavirus Task Force. The president and our entire team continue to be inspired. By the way people all across this country are putting into practice 15 days to slow the spread. We are 10 days into the 15 days. And let me say again to every American, if you’re in an area that’s been impacted by the Coronavirus, it’s absolutely essential that you listen to state and local authorities for guidance. But for every American, what you can do is implement the practices outlined in the President’s coronavirus today because we truly do believe that as millions of Americans have done and will continue to do, that we can significantly impact the rate of growth in this epidemic in our country. We can spare Americans from exposure to the Coronavirus and we can save lives and so on behalf of the President and our entire task force, I want to say thank you to the American people.
<41:26>
I thank you for your cooperation. Thank you for embracing the principles in 15 days to slow the spread. We heard about that cooperation today in a series of conference calls. We spoke with equipment manufacturers who are stepping forward as never before to assist us in developing the medical equipment that is essential, whether it be masks or other medical supplies or ventilators. FEMA reported to our task force today that hundreds of companies have stepped forward to be involved in the supply chain. And we are vetting nearly 70 of those companies for specific repurposing of their manufacturing to produce everything from mass to gloves to gowns and of course to ventilators. We also had a very productive call with Secretary Betsy DeVos with education leaders from around the country today. And let me say on behalf of the President and a grateful nation, thank you to all of our teachers, many of whom are now home teaching children from afar, even in many cases while they have their own kids home from school.
<42:36>
You are truly heroes and the Department of Education as well as your state department of education are grateful to each and every one of you who find yourselves educating out of home. And the Department of Education has a helpful website on Coronavirus recommendations, ed.gov/coronavirus. And as we mentioned before, Secretary Betsy DeVos and Secretary Sonny Purdue will be joining us at this podium on Friday to speak about distance learning recommendations that have been made, not just for secondary or for college education, but also for K through 12 education. We’re opening up avenues, creating new flexibility so that not only college students can continue to be involved and learning from afar, but children K through 12 can do the same. Secretary Purdue will also be here to talk about the food lunch program and free and reduced lunches. Today the President and I also spoke to over 150 CEOs of the top nonprofit organizations in the country.
<43:43>
We thanked them for their ongoing work, supplying the needs, not only of people impacted by the Coronavirus, but the most vulnerable among us in our communities. Organizations like Red Cross, the Salvation Army, Feeding America are all still working every day and we promised to urge every American if you have the means and have the ability, continue to be generous to nonprofit organizations that are helping those most in need in your community.
<44:13>
The President marshaled a whole of government approach, that means working with our governors. Today, the president and I were in direct contact with governors of New York, California, Washington state, New Jersey, Michigan and others and we continue to be inspired and impressed by the leadership that governors are providing in their states, making tough choices, leading their states and the President and I are truly grateful. The task force made a recommendation and FEMA has assembled a team for to provide technical assistance to the state of New York and that team was welcomed by Governor Cuomo, will be arriving on the ground there very soon along with all the other resources that the President recently announced would be flowing to New York and to Washington state and to California.
<45:04>
In my conversation with governor Gavin Newsom of California, I was pleased to speak to him and hear that our FEMA team is literally at the table with the state of California’s team working to meet their supply needs. Working to work on capacity and I want people to know in the states that are most impacted by the Coronavirus that we are with you. We’re going to stay with you and we’re going to continue to work around the clock to make sure your courageous healthcare workers, your health systems and your state governments have the resources to support your response. On the subject of testing, Dr. Birx will reflect on what the data is showing in just a moment, not including local labs and hospitals, we are at 432,000 tests completed.
<45:52>
And we’re pleased to see that there are literally drive through and community sites around the country in the U.S. Public Health Services assisting states in standing those up each and every day. We do remind hospitals and labs around the country, the moment the President signs the bill that it, that it is absolutely essential that they provide the results of the test to us. It gives us visibility into what’s happening on the ground. But because of the public private partnership, President Trump initiated with these vast commercial lab networks around the country, we are adding tens of thousands of tests every single day.
<46:32>
On the subject of supplies, before the end of the week we’ll talk a bit more as the president did moments ago about the supply chain. I was at FEMA last night and literally saw a room full of people with laptops and cell phones. We are literally leaving no stone unturned as I told governors today to find medical supplies. Whether it be masks or gowns or gloves or ventilators and the team is working around the clock to meet those needs.
<47:04>
A few smaller items. First and foremost, the CDC is developing guidance, which we’ll be publishing tomorrow about the best way to utilize our natural resources at our parks. It would be several weeks ago that our park service waived all entrance fees and we directed the CDC to produce guidance for how people can still practice social distancing and common sense, but be out of doors and enjoy our natural parks. We’ll also be sharing that guidance with the vast state park systems around the country and encouraging their support with that. Let me, let me last say again. There is nothing more important for the American people to do to slow the spread than to heed your state and local guidance in areas impacted by the Coronavirus and for everyone else to put into practice the 15 days to slow the spread.
<48:03>
Dr. Fauci will reflect on the importance of mitigation and the impact that we believe that it is having around the country. But it is, people ask me from time to time, “What can I do?” And I say from my heart to every American, this is what you can do, not just to protect your own health and that of your family, but no American wants to inadvertently spread the Coronavirus, particularly to those that may be vulnerable to serious health consequences. Remember that the risk of serious illness to the average American remains low. I mean the vast majority of people that contract the Coronavirus will have mild symptoms to flu like symptoms and and, and will recover. But for seniors with serious underlying health conditions or with people with immuno-deficiencies, everyone needs to practice the principles of 15 days to slow the spread. The President announced this week that we are looking forward to the day that we can open up the country and this team will be bringing him recommendations about how we can safely and responsibly do just that. But for every American that wants to see America back in business, you can hasten the day by putting into practice the 15 days to slow the spread. Go to coronavirus.gov for details and I truly do believe if all of us will do all that we can do, we will slow the spread. We will protect the most vulnerable and we will heal our land. With that, let me recognize Dr. Tony Fauci, to speak about… Oh, Dr. Birx please and then Dr. Fauci.
<58:59>
Thanks, Doc. We’ll take a few questions. Please.
<59:25>
Ventilators has been a singular focus of a good portion of our Supply Chain Stabilization Task Force at FEMA since the President stood up on FEMA’s National Response Center, and we’re making progress in a variety of ways. First, there is the national stockpile which you refer, and depending on what’s been distributed, we just delivered 4,000 ventilators to New York, including ventilators that we sent to New York City, but there’s that number of some 20,000, less than 20,000, I won’t dispute your number. Beyond that, there literally are, by most estimates, more than 150,000 ventilators in the broad healthcare system all across the country. We also, working with anesthesiologists and there was a very important conference call today, we have determined several weeks ago that the devices that anesthesiologists use for outpatient surgery can be converted with the change of a single vent to a very useful ventilator.
<01:00:35>
I actually spoke to Governor Cuomo about that today. He’s in the process of serving all of his surgical centers, as governors around the country are doing. We literally believe there’s tens of thousands of ventilators that can be converted now that the FDA has given guidance. And Dr. Birx can probably speak to that in a moment. We actually have produced a helpful video to explain how quickly those devices can be converted. But we’re also working with General Motors and other companies to immediately spin up production. Those contracts are being reviewed. We’re vetting their capability.
<01:01:14>
But one of the other ideas is as we look at areas of the country that are most impacted, and now more than half of the cases for coronavirus are in New York state and in the region around there, but we’ll want to focus our resources, including ventilators, on where communities are struggling the most with coronavirus. And so one of the ways that we’re working through that at FEMA now is by spinning up production and at the same time working with the existing national supply, maybe from areas that don’t have a particular burden yet with the coronavirus, and making sure that we’re manufacturing, backfilling and meeting that need.
<01:01:56>
But what I can tell you is we’ve got an extraordinary team. Admiral <inaudible 01:02:00> is a two star Navy Admiral who’s doing an incredible job. We literally are identifying resources around the country and around the world. We’re contracting and arranging transportation for those. But maybe, Dr. Birx, you can speak to the ventilator, quickly transition.
<01:06:32>
Great. Great. We’ll take a couple more things. Thanks. Go ahead.
<01:07:10>
I actually spoke to the Governor of Michigan today, Governor Whitmer and I, about just that. And we put our FEMA regional representative right on the case. We want to make sure that we’re acquiring every bit as much as we can through FEMA, but as we’ve worked with the supply chain, we want to have full coordination with the states, and of course they’re making in hospitals that they’re making. And we’re looking into those matters.
<01:07:41>
But make no mistake about it. This FEMA team at the President’s direction is leaning into this effort, leaving no stone unturned, literally searching not just the nation but the world for all of these critical supplies, and as the President just a reported to you, we’re in the process of shipping 9.4 million N95 respirators, 20 million surgical masks, 3.1 million face shields, and the list goes on, and we’re going to be shipping those every single day. But as I told Governor Whitmer today, who’s leading her state through all of this with great energy, we want to partner with her. We want to partner with every governor and make sure that the left hand knows what the right hand is doing in terms of acquiring resources.
<01:08:29>
<crosstalk 01:08:29> Or, how about you right here.
<01:08:31>
No, right here.
<01:08:35>
Thank you. Go ahead.
<01:08:50>
Well, I’m going to let Dr. Birx address that as well, but let me say again, I just received a report, we’re going to be detailing it before the end of the week, where we’ve literally identified significant resources, not just around the country but around the world, of the masks that can be used by healthcare workers. But as Dr. Birx said, we are focusing those resources in the areas where health care workers are most exposed to the prospect of contracting the coronavirus. The President’s made it clear from early on, right after seeing the needs of Americans who are struggling with the coronavirus, making sure they have the support that they need on the same level of priority. We want our healthcare workers to have the personal protective equipment to be able to do their job safely and we’re working on that.
<01:09:48>
I will tell you, I spoke about this today to several governors, not only the Governor of Michigan, but the Governor of Indiana and President Trump and I couldn’t be more grateful the way governors around the country are joining us in calling on businesses to go back to their warehouses and identify industrial masks, N95 masks, that because of the change that President Trump insisted on in the law can now be used by hospital workers. And they’re perfectly acceptable to protect a healthcare worker from the possibility of a respiratory disease.
<01:10:24>
But we’re calling on and our governors are joining us in calling on every business across America during this time of great challenge, where many businesses are idled, go back to your store houses, identify N95 industrial masks, and as I told our governors today, they can call FEMA, they can call the state healthcare services, or they can just load them up on a flat bed and drive them over to their local hospital. And literally we hear stories in every state in the union of people doing that. And so it’s happening all at the same time and we’ll be detailing the progress we’re making on masks. Anything further, Deb?
<01:12:12>
Let me just say, we look forward to seeing you all tomorrow. We’ll be back here with further progress and news. But if I could just say to every American, we’ll get through this. We’ll get through this, but we’ll get through this together. Every American needs to understand that whether you are in an area that’s impacted by the coronavirus, or an area where there’s very few cases, if you do your part to put into practice 15 days to slow the spread, you will do just that. You’ll impact the spread of this coronavirus epidemic in our country. These experts tell me that we can significantly reduce the number of Americans that would be exposed to the coronavirus as every American continues to put these guidelines into practice.
<01:13:03>
And we just know that with all of the extraordinary effort that’s being done at the federal level by this tremendous team, and all of our agencies, all the great leadership by governors in both parties across the country, with all the incredible and courageous work by healthcare workers, with the cooperation and the prayers of the American people, we will get this done. We will not only slow the spread, we’ll protect the vulnerable, and we’ll heal our land. Thank you all. We’ll see you tomorrow. <Inaudible 01:13:34>
