<16:52>
Thank you., Mr. President. The President just outlined a number of the decisions that he made today on the unanimous recommendation of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. In addition, some good news Dr. Deborah Birx will reflect on in a moment, on some of the areas across America where we see evidence that the mitigation efforts, the American people putting into practice the President’s coronavirus guidelines are having a positive effect. In fact today, California and Washington State where the coronavirus first emerged in our country, the cases remain at a steady but low rate. We know, as Governor Newsom said yesterday, that they’re not out of the woods yet. We continue to flow resources. But we want to commend people in those States and all across the country who are putting into practice the social distancing, and all the measures that State and local leaders are advising, and that the President has been advising in the coronavirus guidelines for America.
<17:59>
We’re also continuing to track significant outbreaks in New York State, New Orleans, Detroit, Chicago, and Boston. And as the President indicated, we’re prioritizing resources to support health care workers and to support those that are dealing with the coronavirus in those communities.
<18:16>
On the subject of testing, now more than 1.4 million tests have been performed across the country. And as you all are aware, some 266,000 Americans have tested positive for the coronavirus. Abbott Instruments, which now can perform a 15 minute test across the country, have literally 18,000 of their machines across the nation today. But at the President’s direction, FEMA is acquiring over 1200 more machines to distribute to every State public health lab in America and also to our Indian Healthcare and Service.
<18:56>
And the big news, of course, over the last few days was that the FDA, once again in near record time, has approved an antibody. A test developed by SELEX. And we’re continuing on the White House Coronavirus Task Force to examine ways that we can scale up these rapid tests, and these innovative new tests. Not just to meet this moment, but to lay a foundation for testing across the nation in the months ahead.
<19:22>
As President mentioned, he met with energy executives today and continues to engage with leaders of businesses all across the nation. We also held a teleconference today with commercial retailers. On the President’s behalf we thanked them for the way that people that operate malls and shopping centers around the country have embraced and enacted the coronavirus guidelines for America. It’s had enormous impact on their businesses and their industries. But I heard from them their patriotic commitment with the health of their associates and their customers first. And it was deeply-
<20:03>
Put the health of their associates and their customers first and it was deeply inspiring. On the subject of supplies, the president detailed our work in that space. It continues to this day. Part of our air bridge, we had a flight arrive from China today to Columbus, Ohio. We continue to work each and every day watching the data about cases to ensure that in particular, not just the personal protective equipment is available for the healthcare workers that are on the front lines, but also that ventilators are available as this epidemic makes its way through regions and communities. We are literally working hour by hour, day by day, to make sure that patients, families and healthcare providers have the equipment and the support that they need.
<20:50>
As the president mentioned, we’ve seen over a billion and a half dollars in loans go out through the paycheck protection program today. We have available for questions the head of the CDC today to speak about the new guidance on cloth face coverings and Secretary Azar, in a few moments, will explain just how the president’s decision to make sure that no American will ever have to worry about paying for testing or for coronavirus treatment.
<21:22>
I’m pleased to report that the president’s direction, Medicaid and Medicare already expanded to coronavirus treatment and testing early on. Of course the president just indicated how major insurance companies across the country are not just waiving copays on testing, but they’re now waiving copays for at least 60 days on any coronavirus treatment. Now Secretary Azar will enumerate on how we’ll make sure that any American, even those that have no insurance, will be able to receive treatment in a hospital and never have to worry about the bill.
<21:57>
I just give a gentle reminder to every American that there is evidence across the country that you’re putting into practice the coronavirus guidelines for America. Every American has a role to play and I want to thank you on behalf of the president and all of the American people for the way that you’re stepping forward. You’re engaging in the social distancing and doing the things that will slow the spread. We encourage you to keep on keeping on. We will get through this, America. We will get through the coronavirus to that day of renewed health, renewed prosperity that the president always describes. But we’ll get through there sooner and we’ll get through there when we work together.
