<46:24>
Thank you, Mr. President. I hope the American people looking on today are as proud as the President and I are of the incredible public and private partnership that you heard from today. It was two months ago that we had done less than 10,000 tests for the coronavirus in the United States. But because the President brought together these incredible commercial labs, brought together the best known retailers in America, now Mr. President, we have 5.4 million tests. And as you said earlier today we’ve done more than 200,000 tests in a single day.
<47:06>
As we met with governors today, I sensed the enthusiasm among governors for the way that testing is scaling all across the country. And, we assured them on the call today that we’re going to continue to directly partner with them to make sure that all of the resources you’ve heard about today continue to be expanded.
<47:26>
I want to ask Admiral Giroir, who is literally working day in and day out with the governors, to describe some of the numbers for exactly where we will be. We’re North of 5 million tests done now. It is remarkable to think of the pace of acceleration. But Admiral, maybe you could speak about exactly when we will reach the point that some of the experts say that they think we need to be at. Whether that be the 300,000 tests a day or 500,000 tests a day. But what’s remarkable to me as a lay person, Mr. President, is because of this partnership you’ve forged. We’re almost there.
<48:03>
Because of this partnership you’ve forged, we’re almost there. And we’ll be there very, very soon for the American people. But everyone who is anxious to see America reopen, as this president and our entire administration are, should know that the three-phased approach that the president outlined 10 days ago, we believe, and I believe increasingly governors understand around America, that we have a sufficient amount of testing today for every state that qualifies to enter phase one to begin to reopen their economies. And Mr. President, with your permission, I’ll just ask Admiral Gerard to give some specific numbers about for all that we’ve done, how much more quickly you’ll see an expansion of testing because of the partnership that you witnessed again here today.
<50:53>
John, I appreciate the question, but it represents a misunderstanding on your part and frankly a lot of people in the public’s part about the difference between having a test versus the ability to actually process the test. The truth was when the president tapped me to lead the White House Coronavirus Task Force two months ago, we saw the production of lots of test kits going into the marketplace. But as the president has said many times, what he understood early on was the old system would never be able to process the tests at the massive volume that we would need in the midst of an epidemic. And that’s why the president brought together these extraordinary commercial labs that you’ve heard from today. Literally sat them down in the Roosevelt Room and said, “We need you to turn all of your energies loose on doing the kind of high speed testing that would be necessary for us to reach the numbers we’re at today.”
<51:52>
And so there was no disconnect at all. There were lots of test kits out there, and well frankly there still are today. There are literally millions of tests that could be run in the old style slow laboratory that are still conducting tests today, whether it be at the CDC or at state laboratories. But what the president brought about with this public private partnership has brought us to the point where we’ve done 5.4 million tests to date. And literally, you just heard that by next month, we could be doing as many as two million tests a week all across the country to give the American people confidence that we can reopen and get our economy moving again.
<52:43>
John, I think, precisely correct, that in my first week on this job, we were informed that HHS, I believe IDT was the vendor, Admiral Gerard, that had distributed a million, was distributing another four million. And we believe they did. But again, those were tests that frankly, but for the president’s leadership, we’d still be waiting on those tests to be done in many cases, because they were tests that were designed to be run in the old laboratory model. But early on at the president’s direction, we brought in these incredible commercial labs. We partnered with these extraordinary retailers and now we stand here today. Literally one day last week, more than 200,000 tests in a single day. About the time that we were making those comments, we’d done less than 25,000 tests in the entire country. But we’ve met this moment with American ingenuity, with the incredible companies that are represented here, and we couldn’t be more proud.
