<14:03>
I have two slides, really one, just to give you a sense of the things that we’re doing. One of the most converse discussions going, are airplanes safe? Is flying safe? And I think that’s of paramount importance. We’ve always been one of the, if not the safest industry in the world. So some of the things that we’re doing are on this chart, and it’s simply everything you think, hydrostatic testing that disinfects, wiping everything down, the wearing of masks for everyone. We were one of the first to be able to do that, touchless aspects. Our customers get a chance to choose where they sit. The HEPA filters on our aircraft, I think it’s important for the flying public to understand, these HEPA filters are hospital grade filters that remove 99.7% of particles in the air. The combination of the filter and the masks that we’re wearing should completely eliminate to a great degree the aspect that if we practice all the other things. So we’re working through all of that. But again, it feels like we’re always talking into the wind with regards to that, so we took it a step further and have partnered with different people, Clorox in particular.
<15:03>
It’s a brand name that speaks of powerful disinfectant, and that branding aspect gives it a little bit of sense. Then we went a step further and used Cleveland Clinic to guide us and direct us. Here are the things that we’re planning on doing, is that meaningful? It’s like having Ambassador Birx at our side to support those things. So those are the things that we’re doing with regards to our safety.
<15:25>
On the next chart, your question is, how do we restart the economy? If I can get the next chart, please. The first one’s obvious, and I think we’ve all been talking at it in the business community. It isn’t just about airlines flying. People have to go someplace and fly somewhere, right? The hotels of the world, the restaurants, the theme parks, all of that has to be collectively. And I think everything we do as a business and as a government is to ensure that we take everybody into account and not forget the fact that airlines are only part of it. So, that’s an important part.
<15:59>
Then again, from a health perspective, I don’t know that there’s another nation that has more powerful pull back to branding than the US. Anything that comes out of the US is going to be accepted. So, thank you for the efforts. Ambassador, it was a wonderful, those conversations.
<16:12>
Then lastly, this is the big ask from our perspective, we are global, we fly over 60 countries. This isn’t a China question. This is the general aspect of when the world restarts to fly. It’s historically every government, every country will have its own regulatory scheme to start flying. That is called patchwork. That is not harmonization. In order to get the economy going and flowing out from a perspective of the entire planet, it’s important that we work with your teams to get that harmonization and avoid patchwork, so thank you again for everything.
