<39:54>
Thank you, Mr. President. Listen, we are attempting to navigate. We are, when I say we, I’m speaking of you as our leader in this administration. We’re attempting to navigate our way through uncharted waters right now. We are going through a crisis that has been it’s unprecedented in modern history. And so we’re learning more about this challenge every day, information is being updated every day, but information is also being outdated every day.
<40:22>
Things we thought three months ago, we don’t think today. So we’re navigating our way through this and we have to all be on one accord in this. I thank you, Mr. President, for your bold leadership.
<40:33>
I really believe that the effects of this pandemic would have been much more severe if it had not been for measures that you enacted and that this administration has enacted in conjunction with the state governments to try to contain and curtail the spread as much as possible. This President has pledged to give assistance to underserved communities that are impacted by this COVID- 19 virus.
<41:01>
He has pledged to give us assistance in those areas, which will actually coincide with the President’s already existing initiatives in the urban communities throughout this country. This assistance that he provides regarding this COVID-19 virus will be another layer, it will add another layer to the President’s already existing urban revitalization efforts. This President’s providing PPP loans that are focused in and on minority and urban and underserved and disadvantaged and distress communities.
<41:33>
You’ve already stated how you’re providing unprecedented funding for HBCUs, he’s provided billions for entities that are staples in the black community, childcare centers so they can remain open during this time. You’re also providing underserved communities with testing and healthcare resources so that no one is reached or no one is denied access to vital equipment and vital testing.
<42:01>
You’ve committed to discovering and addressing the reasons why some communities, particularly the black community, seems to be affected more so than others. And you’re making sure that the federal government is also going to cover health costs for those that are uninsured or underinsured. We thank you for this. Our country has been placed on pause. The pause has not stopped. We’ve been on pause, but we’re about to press go and get back going again. I said it before unashamedly, and I’ll say it again, this President has been… I’ve lived under 12 presidential administrations. I was born during Eisenhower’s administration. This President has been the most pro-black president in my lifetime. But when I say pro I’m saying it pro in the sense of being proactive, he’s been proactive rather than reactive to issues concerning minority, underserved and disadvantaged communities than any other president in my lifetime.
<42:59>
I really believe history is going to be kinder to you, Mr. President, then fake news media is today.
<43:10>
And you tried to initiate action to restrict travel from other countries and we’re seeing that you were a visionary in that area. And I know you’re doing your very best. I know you have the heart of this country in your heart, and I know you’re doing your very best to preserve this great union. As far as I’m concerned myself, my business partner, Kareem Lanier, the company that we have. We have raised a billion dollars in liquidity to help provide PPP loans to businesses that are in need of, in conjunction with The Cares Act.
<43:49>
And I thank you that you’ve directed the White House opportunity and revitalization counseling. You couldn’t think of anyone more capable than Dr. Carson and Scott Turner here to engage with and focus on our communities that have been in fact impacted by this. And they have been interacting with a number of coalitions. They’re doing a great job. So we thank you. And Mr. President, we have your back.
<44:14>
We know you have our back as well.
<44:14>
So God bless you.
