<30:46>
Thank you Mr. President, Administrator Verma and members of the Coronavirus Task Force. Let me focus on the logistics in our effort to deliver personal protective equipment care packages to those citizens at highest risk and greatest need, those living in our nursing homes across the country. Thanks to the leadership of the President and the tremendous support of the white house Coronavirus Task Force, FEMA will deliver a care packages containing four items of PPE to more than 15,000 Medicare, Medicaid certified nursing homes nationwide to include the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and Guam.
<31:24>
Given the lack of availability of PPE necessary for healthcare workers providing support for nursing homes, we will provide a package, or a kit, containing a seven day supply of eye protection, masks, gowns and gloves to these 15 plus nursing homes. Each kit is individualized for each nursing home based on the level of staffing and the seven days of our supply calculation.
<31:48>
Over the course of the next 60 days, we’ll be providing each of the nursing homes with two separate shipments of seven days of supplies totaling 14 days of supplies by the beginning of July. The first shipment of supplies begins next week. These initial shipments will focus on metropolitan area sites such as New York City, Northern New Jersey, Boston, Chicago, and Washington, D.C. The second shipment of supplies begins in early June. The goal is to have all supplies delivered no later than July 4th.
<32:19>
Assisting us in this endeavor is Federal Resources, a small business based out of Stevensville, Maryland who specializes in chem bio equipment support with focusing on kitting solutions for the Department of Defense. They will help us distribute the following PPE items: 608,000 pieces of eye protection, 6.9 million surgical masks, 6.4 million gowns, 31.4 million pairs of gloves.
<32:48>
Finally, I again would like to extend my gratitude to the President for his leadership on this project. As well as to thank my fellow members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force and their continued partnership. Together we have turned a critical demand for PPE for our seniors and frontline healthcare workers into reality. Thank you, sir.
