<00:10>
Thank you very much. I had a very busy day. I want to thank the American people for the incredible sacrifices that they’re making a behalf of our nation and I want to encourage everyone to keep following our guidelines on social distancing, avoiding large gatherings and hand-washing and all of the other things that everybody knows they’re supposed to be doing. Ultimately, the goal is to ease the guidelines and open things up to very large sections of our country as we near the end of our historic battle with the invisible enemy. We’re going for a while, but we’ll win.
<00:52>
I said earlier today that I hope we can do this by Easter. I think that would be a great thing for our country and we’re all working very hard to make that a reality. We’ll be meeting with a lot of people to see if it can be done. Easter is a very special day for many reasons for me, for a lot of a lot of our friends. That’s a very special day and what a great timeline this would be. Easter as our timeline. What a great timeline that would be. My first priority is always the health and safety of the American people. I want everyone to understand that we are continuing to evaluate the data.
<01:37>
We’re working with the task force and making decisions based on what is best for the interest of our fantastic country. In order to defeat the virus, we must continue to be very strong. Your resilience and spirit has been inspiring to everyone. Right now this virus is attacking 149 countries, but everybody looks to us and they’re watching us and I’m very proud to be your president, I can tell you that. There’s tremendous hope as we look forward and we begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel, stay focused and stay strong and my administration and myself will deliver for you as we have in the past.
<02:26>
Let me provide you an update on critical preparations and supplies in a war on the virus. Through FEMA, the federal government is distributing more than 8,000,095 respirators, 14 million surgical masks and many, many millions more under order and there’ll be arriving soon. 2.4 million face shields, 1.9 million surgical gowns, 13.5 million gloves and more than 4,000 ventilators to the areas of greatest need have already been sent and we have 4,000 being delivered to New York. The federal government is using every resource at its disposal to acquire and distribute critical medical supplies.
<03:16>
The core element of this strategy is my executive order authorizing the use of the Defense Production Act, which has, as you know, already been activated actually a long time ago, quite a long time ago. Private companies are heeding our call to produce medical equipment and supplies because they know that we will not hesitate to invoke the DPA in order to get them to do what they have to do. It’s called leverage. You don’t have to use it from the standpoint of actually it’s been activated but you don’t have to use it. But the threat of it being there is great leverage and companies are doing as we ask and companies are actually even better than that.
<03:56>
They’re coming through and they’re calling us and it’s been really something to see. This morning, Ford, 3M, General Electric Healthcare are making tremendous numbers. They’ve already started respirators, ventilators and face shields. They’re working together. We didn’t have to exercise or utilize the DPA in any way. The fact that we have it helps but we didn’t have to and for the most part we won’t have to. We’re receiving full cooperation from companies with the understanding that the federal government stands ready to compel cooperation if need be.
<04:37>
We haven’t found that to be the case and it’s been really amazing to see these big, strong, powerful, in some cases very small companies, family owned companies step up and make a lot of great product for what we’re going through and what we will continue to be going through for a while. The Army Corps of Engineers and the National Guard are building four hospital facilities in New York City at the Javits Center, which will be operational very soon. They’ve already started. In addition, they’re building four separate medical facilities in different parts of the state.
<05:15>
We’re dealing with Governor Cuomo on that. So you’re going to have four hospitals and four medical facilities at the highest level to really incredible facilities, temporary but incredible. We’re also deploying the US Navy Hospital Ship and that will be arriving in New York Harbor in the not too distant future. It’s finishing its maintenance. They’re doing a very big maintenance and what we did is we condensed it very seriously and as you know, the other hospital ship, and these are incredible ships. It’s already on its way to Los Angeles.
<05:53>
So we’re in frequent contact with state and local officials and getting a lot of work done. We’re likewise building hospitals in Los Angeles. We are working also the state of Washington. We’re working with the governor of the state of New Jersey building a medical facility, a hospital facility, and doing a lot of work. I want to thank the people from FEMA, the great people from FEMA and also the Army Corps of Engineers. Secretary Mnuchin and the members of my administration continue to work closely with Congress. I’m pleased to report that we are working to pass the biggest and boldest financial relief package in American history.
<06:36>
Senators will soon hopefully vote on a $2 trillion bill that will deliver direct cash payments to struggling Americans, no fault of their own. This came out of nowhere. Nobody can imagine this even happened, but it’s not their fault. We want to protect and we will all of the things that a person needs protected and a family needs protected. We’re working on job retention loans for small businesses and extended unemployment insurance for laid off workers. The legislation will also include billions of dollars for additional resources for our and really heroic.
<07:18>
These are incredible doctors, nurses, brave and hospitals as well as support for hard-hit industries such as the airline industry and the cruise ship industry, which employ tremendous amounts of people and obviously serve very important functions beyond that with very tough protections for the American taxpayer. The loans will be very secure and they will be very profitable and at the same time they’ll bridge, they call them bridge loans. In many cases, they’ll be bridging these companies back into very good health. Some of them are very important companies that four weeks ago didn’t have a problem.
<07:59>
I’m also confident that the Democrats will do the right thing. I feel very confident. They’re working very hard together right now, Republicans and Democrats, and they’re getting very close to a very fair deal and a great deal for the people of our country. Today, as you probably saw, the Dow surged over 2,100 points. That’s the all time record history of the exchange. This is very encouraging and I think part of the reason is they are looking at what is close to being passed and I think a very big part of it is they see that we want to get our country open as soon as possible.
<08:35>
They see we’re working very hard on that. That’s a very big factor, I think, in today’s a historic gain. The legislation developed in the Senate is the first step to restoring confidence and stability to America’s economy as we look ahead to the time when we can carefully and responsibly reopen country for business and we hope that’s going to be very soon. I want to ensure Americans that we have a team of public health experts. We’ve gotten to know them as well as I know them. They’re great people, incredible, talented. They love our country.
<09:09>
Also, economists and other professionals working to develop a sophisticated plan to reopen the economy as soon as the time is right, one based on the best science, the best modeling and the best medical research there is anywhere on earth. Our great people have been, especially when it comes to our public health experts and officials, have been helping other countries, dealing with other countries, constant touch with other countries, helping them out because many of them have never seen anything like what’s happening.
<09:44>
But our decision will be based on hard facts and data as to the opening. I’m also hopeful to have Americans working again by that Easter, that beautiful Easter day. But rest assured, every decision we make is grounded solely in the health, safety, and wellbeing of our citizens. This is a medical crisis. This isn’t a financial crisis, but it’s a thing that nobody has seen for many, many decades. Nothing like this. Marshaling our economic strength is a key feature of defeating the virus, producing the material, supplies and equipment that we need, and they’re doing a really fantastic job.
<10:28>
We’re helping the governors. We had a conference call the other day with the governors and we allowed the press to join us on the call, and the spirit between us and the governors has been really great. We should never be reliant on a foreign country for the means of our own survival. I think we’ve learned a lot. We’ve learned a lot. This crisis is underscore just how critical it is to have strong borders and a robust manufacturing sector. For three years, we’ve embarked on a great national project to secure our.
<11:02>
Embarked on a great national project to secure our immigration system and bring back our manufacturing jobs. We brought back many jobs, record number of jobs, and this really shows, this experience shows how important borders are. Without borders, you don’t have a nation. Our goal for the future must be to have American medicine for American patients, American supplies, for American hospitals and American equipment for our great American heroes. Now both parties must unite to ensure the United States is truly an independent nation in every sense of the word.
<11:45>
Energy independence, we’ve established that. That’s something incredible that we’ve established. We’re energy independent. Manufacturing independence, economic independence, and territorial independence enforced by strong sovereign borders. America will never be a supplicant nation. We will be a proud, prosperous, independent and self reliant nation. We will embrace commerce with all, but we will be dependent on none.
<12:19>
Above all, we know that the best thing for our economy and the world right now is a very, very powerful victory over the virus. Every day the American people are showing the unity and resolve that has always defined the character of our nation. In New York, citizens are using 3D printers to make hundreds of face shields. They’re making them by the hundreds. In Texas, businesses and churches are uniting to collect gloves and thermometers for hospitals. In the selfless actions of our amazing citizens, we’re seeing enduring strength of our magnificent nation, a spirit that can never be broken and a victorious future that can never be denied. It never will be denied.
<13:08>
Now what I’d like to do is perhaps ask a person who has really established herself as maybe the world’s great expert on what she does, if I could ask Deborah to come forward and say a few words and then I’ll ask Tony to come up and speak and then our vice president, and then we’ll take a few questions and we’ll do it quickly and we’ll probably see you again tomorrow. So Deborah, please.
<20:39>
Thank you, Tony. Good job. Larry, how about just a quick few minutes on how we’re doing over at the Hill, please?
<24:55>
I’ve been hearing that voice for so many years, like 30 years or more maybe, and it’s a great voice and it’s a great man. So Larry Kudlow, thank you very much.
<25:04>
I want to say that that package, and we went over parts of it, but pretty big parts. It really sets us up to, I think even supersede where we were a month ago. I think we can get up there quickly, and I think it allows us to supersede, it allows us to help these great companies that need help like Boeing, which had a problem and then on top of that problem it had the virus come in. But we’ll be helping Boeing, we’ll be helping the airlines, we’ll be helping the cruise lines. We’ll be doing a lot of things and the money will all come back to us and it’ll come back to us in a very strong form. And before we take some questions, I’d like to ask our great vice-president to say a few words if you wouldn’t mind, please.
<33:26>
I think we’re looking at a timeline, we’re discussing it. We had a very good meeting today. If you add it all up. That’s probably nine days plus another two and a half weeks. It’s a period of time that’s longer than the original two weeks, so we’re going to look at it. We’ll only do it if it’s good and maybe we do sections of the country. We do large sections of the country. That could be too but we’re very much in touch with Tony and with Deborah whenever they <crosstalk 00:33:54>.
<33:58>
I Just thought it was a beautiful time, a beautiful timeline. It’s a great day.
<34:02>
It was based on a certain level of weeks from the time we started and it happened to arrive, actually we were thinking in terms of sooner. I’d love to see it come even sooner, but I just think it would be a beautiful timeline, John.
<34:51>
We’re working with all of them. We can be talking about large sections of our country because there are sections of our country that you didn’t talk about that are doing unbelievably well. They’ve very little incidents or problem, there very small numbers. It’s very possible that they won’t be ever subject to what’s happening in New York. New York is definitely a hot spot. There’s no question about it and what we’re doing in New York to try and help and I think we’re doing an incredible job. We’re going to have the hospitals up quickly, the medical centers also quickly, but we’ll just have to see. We have to follow it. We have to see where to look at that curve. We’re going to see what it starts coming down and we’ll do the best job that can be done, John.
Press John2: <35:32>
Question for you Mr President and Dr. Fauchi if we could. When looking at this idea of an Easter timeline and I know that’s probably flexible. What are the metrics by which you will make the decision as to whether you can say, “Yes, we can open up this area of the country or no, we can’t open up that area”. Will you be looking at disease numbers? Will you be looking at possible containment, isolation?
<35:54>
I think we’ll be looking at a lot of things. We’ll also be looking again at very large portions of our country and I will be guided very much by Dr. Fauci and by Deborah and by some of the other professionals that work with both of you. And we’re going to see what will be. But that would certainly be, I think that’s a goal that perhaps can happen or at least for a very large portion of our country.
<38:14>
Well certainly is by far if you call it hot, if you call it any word you want to use. It is at a level that I was speaking to Tony before. It’s a level that no place else is close. It’s very unfortunate. One of the things that’s happened that we’ve done, I think a really good job on it. I think that it’s something special what’s happened, is I learned from Dr. Burkes a little while ago when she said, I learned it actually this afternoon. In eight days because we kept hearing about South Korea. They had a very tough time at the beginning if you remember. In eight days we’re doing more testing than they’ve done in eight weeks. That’s a tremendous turn and with our testing it’s going exponentially it’s going up, up, up every day. So we’re going to be able to do things with his very highly sophisticated testing and it’s also the test itself is considered the best test. So on top of doing now more than anybody else, we have a very high quality test. That makes a big difference.
<39:17>
It also makes a big difference even in terms of opening because we’re going to see those areas like the hotspots, but New York City definitely is a very hot spot, Steve.
<39:31>
Well you can talk about the farm belt and take a look at the farm belt. Take a look at the areas out West. Look at big sections of Texas. I was talking to the great governor of Texas. They’ve done a fantastic job out there, but they have very big sections of Texas where it’s… That’s numerous States frankly. But we can have large sections if we want to do it that way, we could have large sections of the country open. I think it’s very important that we start moving on that and start thinking about it because our country wants to be open.
<40:04>
Our people want it to be open and they’re raring to go and I think it’s one of the reasons that we’re going to have a tremendous bounce back. I think it’s going to go very quickly. Also, I want to thank while I’m here. I want to thank Larry for the job he’s done. Steven Mnuchin for the job he’s done. If you look at Peter Navarro, he’s doing different things. He’s really a force in terms of getting masks and getting all of the ventilators and all the things. He’s been fantastic, Peter. But I also want to thank Congress because whether or not we’re happy that they haven’t quite gotten there yet, they have been working long hours. I’m talking Republicans and Democrats, all of them, the House, the Senate. I want to thank Congress because they are really trying to get there and I think they will and I’ll see you all tomorrow. Thank you very much.
<41:06>
We’re talking to them about it yeah.
