<00:00>
Appreciate it. I want to express our nation’s deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathies to the family of George Floyd. Terrible event. Terrible, terrible thing that happened. I’ve asked that the Department of Justice expedite the federal investigation into his death and do it immediately. Do it as quickly as absolutely possible. It’s a local situation, but we’re also making it into a federal situation. And it’s a terrible thing. We all saw what we saw and it’s very hard to even conceive of anything other than what we did see. It should never happen, should never be allowed to happen, a thing like that, but we’re determined that justice be served. And I spoke to members of the family, terrific people, and we’ll be reporting as time goes by. We think that we also have to make the statement and it’s very important that we have peaceful protestors and support the rights for peaceful protesters. We can’t allow a situation like happened in Minneapolis to descend further into lawless anarchy and chaos, and we understand that very well. It’s very important, I believe, to the family, to everybody that the memory of George Floyd be a perfect memory. Let it be a perfect memory. The looters should not be allowed to drown out the voices of so many peaceful protesters. They hurt so badly what is happening and it’s so bad for the state and for that great city. So we are working very closely with the Justice Department. We’re working with local law enforcement. We’re working with everybody and we’re speaking with the family and hopefully everything can be fairly taken care of.
<02:11>
I understand the hurt. I understand the pain. People have really been through a lot. The family of George is entitled to justice and the people of Minnesota are entitled to live in safety. Law and order will prevail. The Americans will honor the memory of George and the Floyd family. It’s very important to us. It’s very important to me to see that everything is taken care of properly. It’s a horrible, horrible situation. And so we’ll be reporting back in due course and as quickly as possible.
<02:54>
I’m pleased to welcome American industry leaders to the White House as we continue to safely reopened America. We’re glad to be joined by Geoff Ballotti of Wyndham Hotel and Resorts. Wyndham Hotels have been a really terrific company over the years. Brian Goldner of Hasbro, Dave Hoffmann of Dunkin brands, Gary Kelly of Southwest Airlines. Really good jobs they’ve done. Rodney McMullen of Kroger. Thanks, Rodney. Oscar Munoz, United. Thank you, Oscar, United Airlines. Brad Smith of Microsoft. That stock has done very well, I will say. Great job. Great job. Sonia Syngal of Gap, and thank you very much. Also with us is Secretary of Treasury, Steve Mnuchin and Secretary of Labor, Gene Scalia.
<03:51>
Our nation continues to mourn for the lives claimed by the virus and grieve for the families who have lost loved ones. We continue to battle the invisible enemy. We’re directing the full resources and support of the federal government to safeguard high-risk populations, especially in nursing homes. We put in a very powerful strategy on nursing homes for quite a while. The best strategy for public health is to aggressively protect the most vulnerable while allowing younger and healthier Americans to work safely. Nationwide hospitalizations, new cases and deaths are all declining. We’re tracking cases and hospitalizations daily in states that are demonstrating their ability to rapidly identify and contain new outbreaks. Our testing is the best in the world. We’ve now surpassed 15 million tests, which is much more than any other country by a factor of many times. We’ve completed over 15 million and I think we can say that’s a record by a lot. And we’re going to give you a big report on testing tomorrow. We have new tests coming out that are above and beyond anything that anybody would have thought even possible just a couple of months ago.
<05:16>
In many places, we’ve had more tests available than people seeking them. Florida and others have said that they have testing and they don’t have enough people to take the tests. So we’ve come a long way. We started with an empty cupboard. We didn’t have a lot that we inherited and we are… I think, really they’ve stepped up to the plate on ventilators, on tests and on equipment and gowns and everything else, gloves. If you look at masks, everybody has masks now. To maintain the health and safety of our society, we must also maintain the health our economy. There’s a reason why our nation’s life expectancy is closely correlated with economic development. A never ending shutdown would increase, not reduce, the total loss of life in the United States while failing to focus resources on the most vulnerable. We’ve made a lot of progress in terms of the invisible enemy. A lot of progress, a lot of things have happened that have taught us a lot. Nobody’s ever seen anything like this, and there certainly hasn’t been anything like this since over a hundred years, 1917.
<06:32>
I want to thank all of these great companies for being here and representing their company and themselves and our country so well. We’re going to be having a discussion with the companies as to suggestions they have. We think we’re going to have a very strong opening, which has just started, really. We had the greatest economy in history of any country, not just ours. The greatest in history. We had the best employment numbers that we’ve ever had. We’ve had the best numbers in every way. Whether it’s the biggest tax cuts, the greatest regulation cuts of any president, nobody’s even come close. We’ve rebuilt our military. We have the strongest military we’ve ever had. New equipment coming in all the time, a lot of it already arrived and very importantly, all made in the USA. And so many other things.
<07:23>
You look at what we’ve done for the vets with choice and accountability, the combination. They weren’t able to get that done for over 40 years and we got them both approved. Right to Try, got it approved. We’ve done so much and then we had to turn it all off in order to be in a position where we are right now. Numbers were estimated to be 2 million deaths, one and a half million deaths, maybe 1 million, but it could have been over 2 million and may be substantially over. Unfortunately, one is too many.
<07:57>
It should have been stopped. It could have been stopped in China. It should have been stopped in China. But it didn’t stop and the world got infected and it’s very sad. It’s a very sad thing. But we turned off the greatest economy ever, and we turned it off very quickly, very rapidly. We banned people coming in from China early, very early. In fact, most people said, don’t do it. Even a month later they were saying, you shouldn’t have done it. And we turned out to be right. But we have now a long way to go. But we’re getting very good early numbers, as everyone knows. The stock market has been doing very well because people have a lot of confidence.
<08:38>
We’re doing very well on therapeutics. We’re doing very well on vaccines. I think we’re going to have some very good answers soon. And we’re set up logistically with our military. Our military is set to move and to act so that when, I think I can say when we have that vaccine. I think I can say it with pretty good surety based on what we’re seeing. That rather than taking long periods of time and bringing it out slowly, we’re able to bring it out very, very quickly. So we have a general in charge of logistics, that’s what he does and he’s supposed to be the best. Usually moving soldiers and moving various things for other reasons, but now he’s going to be moving vaccines or therapeutics depending on what ultimately ends up. But we’re doing very well on vaccines. We’re doing very, very well on therapeutics and maybe I could use the word cure as opposed to purely therapeutic.
<09:32>
So I want to thank everybody for being here. We have a lot of positive things to report. You see some of the numbers coming out with some of the states that have been opened and some of the numbers have been really, really beyond expectations. So we’re very happy. And I think what we’ll do is we’ll go around the room quickly and we’ll say a few things about any ideas you might have, your company, how well you’ve done with your companies and might as well give it a little buildup. You have plenty of firepower back here. So please, <inaudible 00:10:03> you start. Thank you.
<13:22>
Thank you, Sonia. That’s great. He’s done a great job. Thank you, Sonia. I appreciate it. Steve.
<13:46>
Thank you very much. Oscar, please.
<16:44>
Thank you again, Oscar. Appreciate it. You’ve been very much a factor in what we’ve done. You’ve been really helpful. We appreciate it. Larry Kudlow, please.
<18:30>
I think so, I agree. We’re starting to see it. I think people are going to be very surprised. We’re going to have a great third quarter, a great fourth quarter. I think next year is going to be one of our better years. So, that’s really great. Thank you very much, Larry.
<18:38>
So Jay Clayton is the head of the SEC, Securities and Exchange Commission, and he’s done a fantastic job and I thought maybe I’d invite him up. And you could say a few words if you’d like, Jay.
<19:35>
Thank you very much, Jay. Thank you. Southwest airlines. What a great company. Go ahead.
<22:53>
And thank you, Gary. Great job you do for a long time. Thank you very much. Deborah, please.
<24:04>
So you’re seeing much improved numbers.
<25:08>
That’s fantastic. It’s great. I wish the press would report it, but someday they will. Someday they’re going to do that. Thank you very much, Deborah. I appreciate it. A lot of progress has been made. Great job you’re doing. Thank you. Please.
<27:23>
That’s right.
<27:32>
Great job, Brian. That’s really great. We appreciate that too. Thank you very much.
<30:41>
Thank you, David, very much.
<30:45>
Appreciate it.
<34:19>
Thank you, Rodney, very much, and thank you for all the help, too. You’ve been right from the beginning. Appreciate it.
<34:25>
Thank you very much. Kevin, please.
<35:00>
Right. That’s right.
<35:36>
Thank you very much, Kevin, appreciate it.
<38:21>
Well, it’s going away, but I think we’ll have vaccines, and I think we’re going to have therapeutics and maybe even beyond that, maybe a cure, and it won’t be in the long distance. So, I really think that’s going to be helpful and regardless, it’s going away, but that would certainly speed up the process so, we appreciate it, Jeff. Thank you very much. Jean?
Jean-Philippe Courtois: <38:43>
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for bringing together so many great companies, different companies, different sectors of the economy that some of them have been affected really very different ways during the pandemic. Some able to stay open, some really having great difficulty doing it, but one thing we’ve heard today and we had conversations earlier before the meeting got underway, I think all of them are very, very focused on safety. Safety of their customers, safety of their employees. I don’t think there’s been a time when American businesses have been as focused on safety as they are right now, and that’s a great thing for bringing customers back, bringing workers back. It’s been a focus of ours at the labor department, actually since January. We’ve tried to help American workers through this crisis in so many different ways, but as early as January, we were helping providing guidance guidelines to businesses.
Jean-Philippe Courtois: <39:36>
We’ve now put out guidelines to 16 different specific industries on how they can reopen safely. We’ll continue to do that so that companies understand what’s expected of them, can have confidence in what they need to do and same for workers, and we’re mindful that not every company is going to focus the right way on these things, so we’ll continue to respond to employee concerns, complaints as they come in. As Larry and Kevin said, Mr. President, we’ve turned a corner. We put out unemployment numbers yesterday showing that for the first time since February, the number of people on unemployment dropped, and that’s great. The number of filing is still much higher than we want.
<40:15>
That’s a good sign. That’s a good sign, isn’t it?
Jean-Philippe Courtois: <40:17>
We’ve turned the corner, Mr. President, and we’ll get back there to that extraordinary economy that you built so recently, and we’re going to do it safely.
<40:25>
Thank you, Jean, very much. A man who has done a very good job, Microsoft. That’s a good job they’ve done, Deborah, right? Thank you very much.
<43:44>
Right, we are.
<44:34>
Well, thank you very much and your first picture was so beautiful. The picture of the White House, I don’t think I’ve ever seen one more beautiful than that. I don’t know, you must have something very special over at Microsoft. Wasn’t that beautiful? We appreciate it, thank you very much, Brad. Thank you very much. You have any questions please? Any for the great executives?
<44:54>
Yeah.
<45:09>
Well, I’ve heard that phrase for a long time. I don’t know where it came from, where it originated.
<45:17>
Well I don’t know, I’ve also heard it from many other places, but I’ve heard it for a long time as most people have. And frankly it means when there’s looting, people get shot and they die. And if you look at what happened last night and the night before, you see that. It’s very common. And that’s the way that was meant and that’s the way I think it was supposed to be meant, but I don’t know where it came from. I don’t know where it originated. I wouldn’t know a thing like that, but I will say it’s very accurate in the sense that when you do have looting, like you had last night, people often get shot and they die and that’s not good and we don’t want that to happen. Yeah, please.
<46:15>
Yeah, I didn’t like what I saw at all. I thought it was a terrible thing, a terrible picture. I think that it sad in so many ways, from the standpoint of the family. When you look at George Floyd and his family and you see what that’s done to them, just a terrible thing. He was in tremendous pain obviously, and couldn’t breathe. It was very obvious to anybody that watched it. It was a very, very sad thing for me to see that. We also know that most policemen, you see the great job they do. They do a fantastic job, but this was a terrible insult to police and to policemen. And I know the Justice Department will, as you know it’s a local case, but I know the Justice Department is also looking at it very strongly.
<47:07>
Say that again? I can’t-
<47:15>
Yeah, it should be a peaceful protest. I think really in memory of George Floyd, I think it should be peaceful. It’s terrible. I spoke with his family today, terrific people. I think it’s so bad for the memory when you see a thing like that going on, and hopefully that won’t happen tonight. And as you know, the National Guard has arrived and they’re there, but hopefully everything will be very different tonight. Last night was very sad on many different levels. Yeah, please. Yeah, please.
<47:58>
Well, we’re certainly not happy with what happened with respect to China. They have a virus that started then when it got out of control, perhaps I assume that’s what happened, it got out of control, whichever way and they stopped it from going to China, but they didn’t stop it from going to the rest of the world. So nobody likes that. That was not good. They did not do a good job. So I don’t know if it was incompetence or it was done for some other reason, but I know that I didn’t see anything in Beijing and I didn’t see anything in other Chinese cities, but I did see them in New York, in London, in Paris. We saw them in Spain and we saw them in Italy. We saw that the enemy, the invisible enemy come out and all over the world, 186 countries and probably more than that now. And they stopped it in China, but they didn’t stop it going to Europe and the United States and the rest of the world. So what’s that all about? And we have to do a very strong study and figure that out.
<49:08>
We’re talking about doing a lot of things and we’re not. We’re very, very saddened by what happened to our relationship with China. They should have never allowed this to happen. They could have stopped it at the source. We asked them to come in and help them, and they didn’t want help from anybody. Even the World Health Organization, they wanted to go in and they were delayed, but we asked to go in very specifically and they didn’t want any help. They didn’t need any help. And then it got out of control in some form, but it didn’t seem to get out of control when it came to go into other parts of China, because it didn’t go very far, but it did come to the United States. It did come to Europe. It went all over the world.
<49:49>
Yeah, please.
<49:59>
Well, I just expressed my sorrow. That was a horrible thing to witness and I’ve seen bad things. I’ve seen many bad things and that was just a horrible thing to witness and to watch. And it would certainly look like there was no excuse for it.
<50:20>
They were grieving very much. It was their brother and they were grieving and I could see very much that they loved their brother.
<50:30>
In the back, please go ahead.
<50:43>
Brazil, you said?
<50:57>
Well, the Brazilian president is a friend of mine and he’s working very hard and they do have a big, big outbreak. And I can tell you, he’s a very good man and he loves his country incredibly well. They’ve had a hard time, there’s no question about it. They want a different route than we did.
<51:13>
We did a shut down, they decided to do it a different way. They’re having a very hard time.
<51:22>
Can you take that off, just for a second.
<51:23>
Yeah, it’s…
<51:32>
Well, he went a different way. Brazil went a different way and certainly they’re having a hard time. I don’t want to be critical of anybody because I have great respect for him and he’s doing a very good job with the country then he got hit. He got hit like everybody else. They went about it differently than us. I closed down from China, I closed down from Europe and we did a lot of close downs. We had a close down from Brazil. You’re asking about Brazil, we closed down, as you know, the other night from Brazil. But it’s a tough time they’re having in Brazil. It’s a great country, great place, great people, but they’re having a very tough,
<52:10>
I hope we-
<52:12>
Yeah, I’d like to take the ban off as soon as we can. Okay? As soon as we can. Yes, please.
<52:26>
Well, I think that police brutality certainly is something that we’ve been hearing about, reading about, studying, I have for many years and we all have to say, and I think most people would admit that most of the police, men and women, that I’ve seen have been outstanding. When you have something like this happen, you look at it and you just say, “How does a thing like that happen?” Because you just seem so bad to watch, but our police have been very outstanding. Our crime rates are way down right now in this country, and way down. The police have done a great job. Something like this happens and you really say it’s so bad in so many different ways and so unfortunate.
<53:08>
Yeah, please. Go ahead.
<53:21>
Did you say were there good people?
<53:35>
Well, certainly there were a lot of different people and there were good people too and they were protesting and they were protesting for the right reason. They were protesting in honor of a man, George Floyd, where something happened that shouldn’t have happened. My opinion from what I’ve seen, certainly something happened that shouldn’t have happened. And yeah, you had a lot of people out there that were protesting out of sorrow. And then you had people that got out of control, some people, and I think they did a great disservice to their state and to their city and to really our country, what they did last night. And we brought in the National Guard today and they’re there and that won’t happen again. It can’t happen again. We can never let that happen again. That was run by the mayor of the city. In all fairness to him, he was in a tough position, but I don’t think they were very well prepared. But we brought in the National Guard. They’ll be very prepared tonight. Thank you all very much. Thank you, please. Thank you.
