<01:09:03>
… by what we’re doing, we get the best of both worlds. We don’t have 2.2 million deaths. We have a number that’s much less, much, much less, and at the same time, we get our country running again. Please, thank you <crosstalk 01:09:14>-
<01:09:13>
Thank you very much.
<01:09:14>
You were next. He was very nice in doing it, though, nevertheless. Go head-
<01:09:19>
Which is very unusual for CNN.
<01:09:30>
I don’t think so-
<01:09:31>
It’s a great question, actually, and I asked that the same. I said, “How about Nebraska? How about Idaho? How about Iowa?” You know what? Those people are so great, the whole Midwest, I don’t think they want to be in that position, actually. Probably, I was given a pretty strong look by these two people. They said, “We don’t like that idea”, so we’re relying on them. They’re the best in their profession and they didn’t like the idea.
<01:10:01>
We could do it, but I don’t think it would be good.
<01:10:13>
I didn’t say that <crosstalk 01:10:13>-
<01:10:15>
I didn’t say that <crosstalk 01:10:15>-
<01:10:15>
No <crosstalk 01:10:15> it’s such a <crosstalk 01:10:15>-
<01:10:16>
Excuse me, are you ready? Ready? Ready? Take a look at what I said. I want them to be appreciative of me, and then you cut it off because it’s fake news, CNN <crosstalk 01:10:26>-
<01:10:27>
Please, please, let me just finish. You just said it again and you know the answer’s a lie. You know that <crosstalk 01:10:32>-
<01:10:34>
Let me just <crosstalk 01:10:35> say <crosstalk 01:10:35>-
<01:10:35>
Your statement and your response and your answer is a lie because here’s the story. Are you ready? I said, “I want you to be appreciative of me”, and then you go on and then I go on and you cut it off, but it says <crosstalk 01:10:46>-
<01:10:56>
Thank you.
<01:10:57>
Thank you.
<01:11:02>
I don’t call <crosstalk 01:11:03>-
<01:11:02>
I don’t call, no-
<01:11:04>
I don’t call. No <crosstalk 01:11:04> I don’t call the Governor of Washington now-
<01:11:06>
But Mike Pence calls and the Head of FEMA calls. I don’t stop them. Did I ever ask you to do anything negative Mike to Washington? The State of Washington? Michigan, I love that state. That’s <crosstalk 01:11:17> one of my favorite places in the whole world, Michigan, and I’m so proud of what’s happened with the auto industry. It’s coming back to Michigan. No, I don’t have to call because I’m probably better off not. He’s a failed Presidential candidate. He’s a nasty person. I don’t like the Governor of Washington, so you know who calls? I get Mike Pence to call. I get the Head of FEMA to call. I get the Admiral to call, but what you didn’t say… See, you started it off and you talked about, “I have to be appreciated”, but then when you read the rest <crosstalk 01:11:47>-
<01:11:47>
It said, “Because if you don’t appreciate you’re not respecting these incredible people, the two admirals. You’re not appreciating FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers who built 2900 beds in three and a half days and you’re not appreciating all of the work that’s been done and you’re not appreciating these incredible people from private enterprise that are delivering things in numbers nobody’s ever seen. See, that’s why people aren’t watching CNN very much anymore. That’s why they don’t like it.
<01:12:14>
That’s why you’re ratings are no good because you even after knowing the truth for days now, you bring up the old lie. Read the rest of your question, the rest of your statement you didn’t put in. You have to put that in and it said in there FEMA and it said in there Army Corps of Engineers because when they disrespect me, they’re disrespecting our government. You know what? I don’t mind if I’m disrespected, but they can’t disrespect the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. Okay-
<01:12:45>
Please, go ahead.
<01:12:47>
I want them to appreciate the incredible job we’re doing. We are doing a job the likes of which has never been done before and there are a couple of people that know that, but for political reasons, let’s say they’re Democrats. They don’t want to give this administration credit, and that’s okay <crosstalk 01:13:03> but I don’t have to deal with them <crosstalk 01:13:05> but our Vice President does deal with them. Please, go ahead.
<01:13:08>
That’s why CNN is not trusted anymore. They are not trusted. They are fake news. Remember that. Go ahead.
<01:13:14>
Yes you are. Go ahead.
<01:13:21>
Yeah.
<01:13:42>
No, we think it’s going to really start to open up. We think that that’s going to be the bottom of the hill. That’s where we’re looking at, June 1st, maybe even a little bit sooner than that. We have this hill. If we did nothing, the hill would have been up here. We did a lot. We did just about maximum and we got lucky because we stopped China from coming in and then later on we stopped Europe. We got lucky. We got very lucky. The people that were coming in here, they went to Italy, they went to Spain, they went to other countries. We got lucky and they got unlucky, to be honest with you.
<01:14:16>
You look at what’s going on in Italy and Spain in particular. No, I don’t want that. June 1st, we think we can reach the bottom of that hill on June 1st and that would be a great thing. I have confidence of the two doctors. I think that could be a day. It could even be sooner. It could be a little bit later. It could be sooner, but I think people would be very happy if we did a job and saved potentially millions of lives, I think people would be very happy with that date.
<01:14:45>
Okay <crosstalk 01:14:46> yes, please <crosstalk 01:14:46>-
<01:15:01>
Well, I’m prepared to do whatever’s necessary to, number one, save lives, and number two, bring our economy back strong just like it was before. I think our economy has a chance to be just as good and even better than it was before. Remember, a lot of the money that you read about, that’s all coming back. These are loans to great companies that got stopped from doing business. They’ll be back very soon, so much of the money that we’re talking about, that money’s coming back and we’ll take warrants, meaning we’ll take pieces of the company for the taxpayers of our nation.
<01:15:33>
I expect that we’ll make a lot of money with that money. We’re going to make a lot of money, and that’s okay. I don’t even want to talk about making money because what I want to talk about is two things. Number one is saving lives, and number two is bringing our economy back, but I think we’re going to do very well. That whole money is a lot of it’s coming back. Please.
<01:16:06>
No, I know exactly what you’re saying. No, I’ve read that <crosstalk 01:16:07>-
<01:16:08>
Well, I read that CNN doesn’t want to cover them, except that they can’t help them because their ratings are so high. If the ratings were low, they wouldn’t be here. This man wouldn’t be here. In a hundred years, you could bet your life that he would never be here with CNN and all of their cameras if they’re bad because we help their ratings. We lift up their ratings because their ratings are very low, but for the most part I haven’t heard that. I will say The Washington Post has a drive on not to go to the President of the United States news conference because, frankly, so many people are watching. We’re getting the word out, we’re getting the accurate word out, and a lot of people are happy about it and a lot of people aren’t, but they should be happy.
<01:16:51>
When I have the General, when I have Seema and when I have Tony and when I have our… these are all people that have become big stars, but they’ve done a great job. Deborah has done a fantastic… All of these people, they don’t want to be stars. You know what they want? They want to win. They want to win the battle against the virus. They’ve been fighting this stuff their whole life, between Ebola and swine flu and, I don’t know, I’m not sure I’d love your life, but that’s what you like, right? That’s what they do. They fight disease, and you know what? There’s nobody that does it better. I think the American public, ultimately, they should be the decider. If they don’t want to watch, they shouldn’t watch and we shouldn’t have bigger ratings than The Bachelor, or as The New York Times said, we have Monday Night Football-type ratings.
<01:17:38>
Now, I didn’t say that. I have no idea what they are in a sense, but I know that The Times, they say that it’s all the news that’s fit to print, I say it’s all the news that’s not fit to print because I think they are not honest people, but that’s okay. They can’t help it, but even they said that the ratings are like Monday Night Football ratings and that these are like Bachelor Finale. That’s their end when the big deal happened. I have no idea what happened because I’m too busy working on this. Somebody will tell me what happened. No, I think it’s terrible. When they don’t want the President of the United States to have a voice, you’re not talking about democracy any longer. Please. Thank you very much.
<01:18:39>
No.
<01:18:40>
No, and this is before we heard the 2.2 million people. I mean, we had a lot of people were saying maybe we shouldn’t do anything, just ride it. They say ride it like a cowboy. Just ride it. Ride that sucker right through. That’s where the 2.2 million people come in. Would have died maybe, but it would have been 1.6 to 2.2, and that’s not acceptable, but there were a lot of people that said… I thought about it. I said, “Maybe we should ride it through.” You know you always hear about the flu. I talk about it all the time. We had a bad flu season. We’re in the midst of a bad flu season.
<01:19:16>
You know we had a bad season last year as an example, a bad flu season. You’ll have 35, 36, 37,000 people die, sometimes more, sometimes less. This is different and part of this is the unknown. Part of it also is the viciousness of it. I had a friend who went to a hospital the other day. He’s a little older and he’s heavy, but he’s a tough person. He went to the hospital and a day later he’s in a coma. I go, “How’s he doing?” “Sir, he’s in a coma. He’s unconscious.” He’s not doing well. The speed and the viciousness, especially if it gets the right person, it’s horrible. It’s really horrible. Please, go ahead.
<01:20:20>
Yeah.
<01:20:21>
I don’t think it’s a rumor, I think it’s a fact and Louisiana has been hit hard. Louisiana is an example. It started off with like nobody for so long when I spoke to the Governor, but Deborah or Tony, either of you, if you’d like to talk about it?
<01:23:18>
I think I’m waiting for that little 45-minute test. I sort of like that, or now it’s down to five minutes I understand. No, I haven’t, but I think I will take it again if it’s appropriate. I don’t feel there’s any symptoms. Have you noticed any sniffles? Nothing, right? So far I haven’t felt that way, but you know there was a big strong point made originally. I think it still holds. Take the test if you need it if you have the symptoms. If you don’t, don’t take it. That’s put out by the professionals, so I don’t have it, but I would take it.
<01:23:50>
I just wanted to say one thing also about what Tony had mentioned. I grew up in Queens, New York, and right next to a place called Elmhurst, Queens. They have a hospital that’s a very good hospital, Elmhurst Hospital. I’ve known it, I’ve known where it is. I can tell you the color on the outside, the size of the windows. I mean, I know it very well. It was near my community where I lived. I’ve been watching that for the last week on television. Body bags all over in hallways. I’ve been watching them bring in trailer trucks, freezer trucks. They’re freezer trucks because they can’t handle the bodies there’s so many of them. This is essentially in my community in Queens, New York. I’ve seen things that I’ve never seen before. I mean, I’ve seen them but I’ve seen them on television in far away lands. I’ve never seen them in our country.
<01:24:47>
Elmhurst Hospital, unbelievable people. I mean, when I see the trucks pull up to take out bodies, and these are trucks that are as long as The Rose Garden and they’re pulling up to take out bodies and you look inside and you see the black body bags. You say, “What’s in there?” It’s Elmhurst Hospital, must be supplies. It’s not supplies, it’s people. I’ve never seen anything like it. These people are doing a fantastic job, and somebody else who’s doing a fantastic job is sitting here who is the Head of the Task Force and I just maybe want to finish off because I’d like to ask Mike, what do you think about what we’ve done? Where do you think we’re going? How do you feel also? You studied this so closely. How do you feel about the curve and the June 1st date? That’s aspirational, but I think that’s really modified aspirational because I think we’re going to hit it and maybe we’ll even beat it. Okay, Mike, please.
<01:30:32>
Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike. I just want to end by saying that we’re all in this together, all of us. I have never seen anything like it. The unity, the esprit de corps, the spirit, I’ve never seen anything like it. It’s a beautiful thing to watch. Unfortunately, the enemy is death. It’s death. A lot of people are dying, so it’s very unpleasant. It’s a very unpleasant thing to go through, but the level of competence, the level of caring, the level of love, I just think it’s brilliant and it’s possibly happening in other countries, possibly. I don’t know, I can’t speak to other countries, but I can speak to the United States of America, and I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again. I am very proud to be your President. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
