<36:45>
Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President, and I’m so humble to be here with you, sir. And thank you for your leadership, really your heart for America and the heartbeat of America. And thank you all for being here, servant leaders at this table this afternoon. And so I’m honored to sit with you. Detroit as I wrote down and Secretary Carson, having roots here, I wrote down, Detroit is the epitome of hard work and ingenuity and innovativeness. And I think that same spirit and resolve is still here in Detroit and so I’m grateful to be here.
<37:24>
And Ja’Ron talked about the White House opportunity and revitalization council and how the spirit of that council is economic development and also community development and social impact. To see those inside of the communities in which we serve to thrive and to benefit and for long-term sustainability.
<37:42>
And I just want to encourage everyone to hear that our vision and our spirit is still the same. We are not unaware, we are not oblivious to the severity of the COVID, but our mission remains. Our face is set like Flint, we are steadfast or we’re not going to be moved by this. The President has refocused and repurposed the council with a broader vision. And that’s why we’re here today to hear from you, to share with you, to create partnerships as Ja’Ron talked about in coalitions.
<38:14>
But Mr. President, we are in the right place at the right time. And I believe Detroit can be a shining example through the recovery during the COVID and after the COVID and that America could see. Americans want to go to work. We are working people and small business drives America.
<38:32>
And we’re in a great place today and to not just to take the tour, but to have a meeting, but a great example of what hard work can do in this country and career and technical setting. Education is not a one size fit all representative, so career and technical centers in HBCUs and educating our young people for generations to come is so important to us.
<38:54>
And that’s why we’re here because long after all of us are gone, what we talk about here today and beyond today will affect those that come behind us. And that’s my heart for being here. So when those that come behind us will benefit for what we do today. And we are about outcomes and this administration and results for all Americans because that’s our team, the United States of America. So Mr. President, thank you.
<39:20>
But really, it’s just a great honor to serve you.
