<02:06>
Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership in marshaling all the resources that we have for this unprecedented testing effort. And thank you, Mr. Vice President for leading a whole of economy approach to testing. As the President mentioned today, the United States hit more than 1 million samples tested, a number that no other country has reached. We’re now testing nearly 100,000 samples a day. Also, a level that no other country has reached. I want to thank every partner that has been involved in this effort. That includes all of the men and women of the FDA and the CDC, including Director Redfield and Commissioner Hahn. Together the FDA and CDC have worked to balance the need for testing on an aggressive scale with the scientific rigor that Americans expect. Working with our testing coordinator, Admiral Giroir, they have now truly unleashed the ingenuity of the private sector and our state and local leaders, the centerpieces of America’s historic approach to testing.
<03:09>
I want to thank those state and local leaders who’ve used their on the ground resources and knowledge to lead testing and make it much more easily accessible to the Americans who need it. I’m also grateful to FEMA, with whom we are now working closely to get state and local partners what they need. I also want to thank CMS, where Administrator Verma has given healthcare providers unprecedented flexibility to scale up capacity for testing and treatment and has ensured that tests will be paid for. Finally, we would not be where we are today without the many American companies, entrepreneurs and scientists who have worked day and night to develop as of today, 20 different emergency testing options. With the FDA responding to request for authorization, typically within 24 hours the number of options is growing nearly every day. FDA has also opened up new options for using the available tests like self swabbing and new options for re-agents.
<04:03>
I also want to thank FDA and other components of HHS for incredibly rapid action on other tools that we need. This weekend we actually worked to secure 30 million tablets from Sandoz and 1 million tablets from Bayer of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, which are potential COVID 19 treatments and we authorized Patel’s new decontamination machines, which can each sterilize thousands of essential N95 masks for reuse every day. So thank you, Mr. President for your leadership and thank you to everybody who’s played a part in getting us where we are today. Thank you.
