<34:06>
Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First in particular I want to thank Kevin McCarthy and Kevin Brady and all the Republicans on the house side who worked with us round the clock. I’d also like to thank Mitch McConnell and his team who were providing us input as well. I especially want to thank Speaker Pelosi who was literally available to us round the clock for the last three days and also want to just thank the Vice President and the President who were very specifically involved in the details with us and providing guidance.
<34:39>
I will just highlight some of the issues here. The first thing I would just say is this delivers on what the President announced in his speech the other night. Obviously people who need to be quarantined and people who have the virus, we want them at home and we want them to continue to get paid. We don’t want to be in a situation where they fear not getting paid during this two week period of time.
<35:06>
The first thing that this does is it creates a very seamless process for people that work for small and medium sized businesses. They will continue to get paid by their employer. They don’t have to worry about big government and coming to big government to get their checks. They will continue to get paid.
<35:23>
We were also very sensitive to small and medium sized businesses. Many of these businesses covered sick pay, but they’re going to have many more people that may be on quarantine, the normal sick pay, and we didn’t want them to have to bear the cost. 100% of the cost for these limited situations will be taken care of by the federal government. And then finally we wanted to think of, again, as I said, how do we deliver money to the people in the quickest way?
<35:51>
We didn’t want to take six months to implement some government system, so I want to thank everybody at the IRS. The way we’re able to do this again, the IRS will issue tax credits for most employers, they’ll just deduct the money from what they owe us. But I want to emphasize for small and medium sized businesses that have cashflow problems, we will issue guidelines. You’ll be able to come to the IRS, get the money in advance so you don’t have cashflow issues.
<36:18>
We were very careful in balancing, making sure that people got paid with not creating undue burden. We also will have unique circumstances where schools are closed. In many places, parents may be able to telecommute and take care of their kids and continue to get paid for their companies, but in certain circumstances that parents have to be home to take care of youngsters or elderly people, again, we wanted to ensure that they had the ability to do that.
<36:47>
And as the Vice President mentioned for kids that receive meals in schools, the schools were closed. We wanted to make sure that those kids would continue to get lunches paid for. I especially want to thank the task force. Two things that were very important to us in this, there’s a provision as it relates to masks. We can now ramp up to 30 million masks a month and we wanted to make sure there was free testing, but there’s also a provision that the states will communicate back to CDC these results.
<37:16>
We will very quickly get those results. Last thing I want to say is I thank the house for sticking around till very late last night at 12:30. I don’t want people to be surprised. We will be doing a technical correction on Monday morning despite us working very hard.
<37:33>
We had language agreed with the Speaker and with Kevin McCarthy, it didn’t get into the final bill. Last night at 12:30 Kevin, the Speaker and I agreed that they would vote on it and have an agreement. There’ll be a technical correction. I don’t want anybody to come back on Monday morning and be surprised by that. Again, thank you to the Vice President and the President. And let me also just say, I would describe this as like a baseball game. The first inning was the $8 billion. This is the second inning.
<38:02>
We have a lot more we need to do with Congress. And the Speaker and I have acknowledged it. We will be working starting immediately. The airlines industry in particular, no different than after 9/11 has a very unique circumstance. The cruise industry, the hotel industry. I would say we’ve got a lot more work to do and we very much appreciate the bipartisan support and anticipate rolling things out very quickly.
<57:45>
So let me just emphasize that this is a unique circumstance. This isn’t like the financial crisis where people didn’t know how long this was going to go on. And let me just say there’s no question because of the things that we’re requesting people to do, there are parts of the economy that are shutting down or slowing down dramatically. And as I said before and I said yesterday, we are committed to use all the tools and all the resources of the government to make sure that we protect the economy. So many of the industries that you’ve talked about, as I said, the airlines are the most obvious because we have a unique circumstance where we have shutdown travel and these are of strategic importance to us.
<58:28>
But we appreciate there’s many industries that are impacted by this. I would also say there’s many individuals. The President has talked about a stimulus program, whether it’s through a payroll tax cut, whether it’s through refundable tax credits. We are 100% committed and I can assure you there is bipartisan support. So we have a lot of tools, the fed has a lot of tools. Some of these tools we don’t have that we had in the financial crisis. We’ll be going back to Congress. And one of the reasons why this bill was so important is this is just now the second step on bipartisan support. We will make sure that the economy recovers out of this and whatever support.
<59:16>
Let me just comment. It would be premature to comment on specific money as I said. I use the analogy of we’re in a baseball game and we’re in the early innings. We have a hundred different things that we’re looking at. Yesterday the President announced on student loans, suspending interest. That was one of the things. He announced using the strategic oil reserve. This is a great time. We also have a unique circumstance having nothing to do with the Coronavirus. Parts of our economy are very much impacted by the temporary low price of oil, so the President, the Vice President and everybody else is 100% committed. We’ve got a hundred different ideas and whatever we need to do, we will do.
