<24:39>
Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for your commitment to the nation’s seniors and to the Medicare program. You’ve been very clear with me since day one that you wanted to protect and strengthen the Medicare program. And under your leadership, our Medicare Advantage program is seeing premiums aa a thirteen year low, and in our part D program it’s a seven year low.
<25:02>
But, today I want to focus on nursing homes. In the scheme of life decisions, placing a loved one in a nursing home has to be one of the most difficult decisions. When you make that decision, you want to know that you can stay connected with your loved one, and that they’re going to be safe and have the best quality of life. That’s why the decision to restrict visitation in nursing homes was a heartbreaking decision. And our thoughts and prayers are with the families and the patients during this very uncertain time.
<25:38>
But the tragic reality is that the Coronavirus seemed almost tailor-made to put major pressure on nursing homes. Countries across the world have struggled with their nursing home populations. But the President’s early action around nursing homes has saved countless lives. Even before the Coronavirus, we have been working on a strategy to improve quality in nursing homes. The strategy focused on quality, oversight, enforcement, and transparency for patients and their families. So they understand exactly what’s going on in nursing homes, about the conditions there. And reducing regulatory burdens so that nursing home providers can focus on providing care to their patients instead of paperwork.
<26:27>
We’ve overhauled the entire survey system and implemented a common tool across the entire nation to ensure that our inspectors were being consistent, objective. And that’s actually resulted in an increase in the number of fines. We’ve updated our websites so that patients and their families have the latest information on the quality in a nursing home, and making it very clear when nursing homes have had significant cases of abuse and neglect.
<26:57>
Those improvements that we’ve made, made it possible when the Coronavirus hit for us to take very rapid action on several fronts. We un-launched an unprecedented transparency effort. And that requires nursing homes to inform patients and families when there’s an outbreak in the nursing home. And to also report that information directly to the CDC. That’s going to be important to our efforts around surveillance, going forward, as we reopen the country.
<27:28>
Also, we increased reimbursement for labs so that they could do more testing in the nursing home. That’s going to be very critical, as I said before, to our monitoring and surveillance efforts. Also, starting in February, we issued a series of nine guidance documents specific to Coronavirus in controlling infections in nursing homes. And, just for some perspective, normally these types of guidance documents can take months, sometimes years. But the CMS team work days, and nights, and weekends to make sure we got this information in the hands of our nursing homes to do everything that we could to protect our vulnerable seniors. We also host weekly calls with the nursing homes to help them implement our guidance.
<28:15>
But federal action is just one part of the piece. States ultimately license nursing homes. That’s why we’ve been working with states to investigate outbreaks that have been going on, and inspect nursing homes. Our guidance has called upon state and local leaders to support nursing homes in their efforts to control the coronavirus outbreaks. And I commend Governor Lee, and governors across the nation that have implemented our guidance. Whether it’s cleaning their facilities, testing, and creating new Covid facilities. That helps isolate patients that are sick, and keeps other patients safe. This work has been critical to keeping nursing home residents safe.
<28:59>
I’m pleased to announce that we are putting out new state grants to support state and local efforts to nursing homes. The President has been an advocate of this, he has asked for increased funding to inspect nursing homes every year in his budget. But this is the first time that Congress has provided this funding. And the money couldn’t come at a more critical time when it’ll be important to work with our state partners to ensure safety in our nursing homes.
<29:26>
But, the President has directed us to do more. And so, as part of our Opening Up America efforts, we are going to oversee the Coronavirus Commission for safety and quality in nursing homes. The commission will comprehensively assess the response. It will identify best practices, and also provide recommendations for how we go forward to protect our nursing home residents and make sure we are providing the best quality of life.
<29:56>
In closing, I want to speak directly to our nursing home residents, their caretakers, and their families. Your pain is our pain, and we are doing everything we can to support you. And, to the healthcare workers on the front lines providing care and comfort to our nursing home residents, we thank you. And thank you, Mr. President for your consistent leadership and unwavering support for our elderly citizens. Thank you.
<30:28>
That’s right.
<30:28>
We’re doing everything we can to lower the price of insulin for our seniors, and we’ll have some great announcements coming up very soon to lower the price.
