<05:46>
Well, Mr. President, you may remember earlier this year, you tweeted a message to our farmers and ranchers that no matter the circumstance, you pledged to stand behind them. And while none of us could ever have anticipated this type of pandemic that we’re currently in, I think today’s announcement is proof that you have our farmers’ backs, and that you will continue to do what it takes to support them, and they are very grateful. We’ve heard a lot recently, all of you about our food supply chain. I think America now knows that more than ever, that the wholesome food that our families depend upon, and starts with America’s farmers and ranchers. America agriculture has been hard hit like most of America with the Coronavirus, and President Trump is standing with our farmers and all Americans to make sure we all get through this national emergency. So today, thanks to your direction and leadership, Mr. President, USDA is announcing the Coronavirus Food Assistance Program. As you mentioned, this new $19 billion program will take several immediate actions to assist farmers, ranchers, and consumers in response to the COVID-19 national emergency. The program is really divided into two parts. One is a direct payment, $16 billion in direct payments to farmers, ranchers, and producers who’ve experienced unprecedented losses during this pandemic. Since we wanted to get the payments out to producers as quickly as possible, we decided to use the funds in the CCC. The current funds of six and a half billion dollars, combined with the 19.5 of COVID money, rather than wait for the replenishment of the CCC funds in July. Based on industry estimates of damage, Mr. President, it is becoming apparent that we’ll need the additional CCC funds as we continue to track the economic losses. Secondly, and this is really important as well, the USDA will be purchasing $3 billion in fresh produce, dairy, and meat products to be distributed to Americans in need through our food bank networks, as well as other community and faith-based organizations.
<07:59>
Having to dump milk, or plow under vegetables ready to market is not only financially distressing, but it’s heartbreaking as well to those who produce them. This program will not only provide direct financial relief to our farmers and ranchers, Mr. President, but will allow for the purchase and distribution of our agricultural abundance in this country to help our fellow Americans in need. So in recent weeks we’ve seen, all of us have seen the heroic patriotism of our food supply chain workers, and they’ve shown day in and day out doing the work to serve the needs of fellow Americans.
<08:32>
Our farmers have been in the fields planting, and doing what they do every spring to feed the American people. Even with the pandemic, as we speak. I want to thank you, Mr. President, for your unwavering support. They want to thank you for your unwavering support, for America’s farmers and ranchers. And I want to commit you, Mr. President, and to the American people that USDA will do everything in our power to implement this program as quickly and as efficiently as possible to help our farmers, ranchers, producers, and consumers during this great time of need. So thank you very much for having me here today. And God bless you. God bless America. God bless American agriculture. Thank you.
