<15:02>
Thank you very much, Mr. President. First let me say, I would like to thank Mitch McConnell for his leadership and I’d also like to thank Chuck Schumer for the enormous bipartisan support we had on this bill and the many senators, both Republicans and Democrats that worked tirelessly over the last five days on all the task force. As the President said, I got to live in the LBJ Room for the last five days and we couldn’t be more pleased with the unprecedented response from the Senate to protect American workers and American business in this situation.
<15:39>
The President has outlined many of these, but let me just quickly go through them. Again, small business retention loans. This will cover roughly 50% of the private payroll in small businesses where we will immediately make loans that will supply eight weeks of salaries as long as they keep workers employed and overhead. Those loans will be forgiven at the end of the period as long as they keep workers employed. These are SBA loans, but the Treasury will be issuing new regulations authorizing almost every single FDIC insured bank to make these. I expect by the end of next week we will have a very simple process where these can be made and dispersed in the same day, so this will be a very simple system to get money into small business hands.
<16:33>
For companies that don’t qualify that we have a economic program of tax incentives to retain workers, and as the President said we have enhanced unemployment insurance for people don’t fit into these two programs that will be administered through the states. We also have economic impact payments. These will be within the next three weeks direct payments into most people’s deposit accounts and for those that don’t have it we will be having the checks in the mail. Treasury will have additional authorities. We have $500 billion that we can use to work with the Federal Reserve for emergency programs that will create up to an additional $4 trillion if needed to support American business and American workers in an unprecedented way. And then finally, the President mentioned $100 billion to hospitals and $150 billion to states that have specific Coronavirus expenses as well as many additional things.
<17:38>
Mr. President, I especially want to thank you and the Vice President. You were constantly available to us. We spoke constantly throughout the day. You gave us guidance and quick decisions on many issues, and again thank everybody for this great bipartisan work. This is going to be enormous help for the American workers and the American economy. The President was very determined that Congress would move swiftly to protect hardworking Americans and business in this unprecedented situation.
<18:11>
<inaudible 00:18:11>.
<18:37>
I would say, we have anticipated three months. Hopefully you won’t need this for three months. Hopefully this war will be won quicker, but we expect that this is a significant amount of money if needed to cover the economy.
<22:19>
Sure. Now, the president, I spoke to several of those senators today. But let me explain the issue, which is we wanted to have enhanced unemployment insurance. Most of the States systems have technology that’s 30 years old or older. So if we had the ability to customize this with much more specifics, we would have. This was the only way we could assure that the States could get money out quickly, in a fair way. So we used $600 across the board. And I don’t think it’ll create incentives. Most Americans, what they want, they want to keep their jobs. And I said for 50% of these businesses, they will have the businesses keep those jobs. Our number one issue was how do we make sure that American workers who needed to keep getting paid, this is no fault of their own, that businesses have been shut down. The president and vice president wanted to make sure those hardworking Americans got money and this was the most efficient way of doing it.
<23:22>
I’m not going to comment on the specifics of where they are, but I would say, our expectation is this bill passes tonight and gets to the house tomorrow and they pass it. We need to get this money into the American economy and American workers. That’s the importance of this.
<26:42>
Again, I would say our expectation is within three weeks, we will have direct payments out where we have depository information. And we’re looking to get a lot more information and we have procedures to do that. So three weeks for that. And I would say the end of next week, we want all the banks to be able to originate loans, same day.
