<06:06>
Thank you Mr. President and thank you for all your work with us to get this passed. I’d especially like to thank Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer and the entire Senate for passing this. I’d also like to thank Kevin McCarthy and Nancy Pelosi who have been working with us around the clock as well, and our chief of staff, Mark Meadows, who was also very instrumental in this. Let me just comment. We’ve had tremendous support for the PPP. This gives us another $310 billion for the PPP. We look forward to the house passing this tomorrow and being up and running quickly after that. This also gives us $50 billion for disaster loans, idle loans that will allow the SBA to make $300 billion of disaster loans all for small businesses. It also allows us, as the president said, more money to hospitals and an unprecedented amount of money for testing. And again I think we understand hospitals, not only the hospitals that have been impacted by coronavirus, but more importantly many hospitals that have been shut down and making sure that the doctors and nurses get money.
<07:16>
Now let me make a just one more comment on the program. We have over a million companies that have received this with less than 10 workers. So there is very broad participation in really small business. I will comment, there have been some big businesses that have taken these loans. I was pleased to see that Shake Shack returned to the money. We will be putting out some FAQs. There is a certification that people are making and I asked people just make sure the intent of this was for business that needed the money. We’ll put out an FAQ. But again, the intent of this money was not for big public companies that have access to capital.
<08:30>
I just want to clarify because certain people on the PPP may have not been clear in understanding the certification. So we will give people the benefit of the doubt. We’re going to put an FAQ out, explain the certification. If you pay back the loan right away, you won’t have liability to the SBA and to Treasury. But there are severe consequences for people who don’t attest properly to a certification. And again, we want to make sure this money is available to small businesses that needed people who have invested their entire life savings. We appreciate what’s going on and they’re hiring people back.
<09:14>
Well, as I said, there are a million of these companies that did get it that are very small. We’re working with the banks. We’re extremely pleased that the small banks did great. 20% of the loans were made by banks of a billion and less, 60% by $20 billion in less. And the big banks also, we want everybody to participate. There’s now a lot of money back in the program and we look forward to all these small businesses getting access to funds. Brett, it’s great to see you.
<09:51>
Well, let me just say, we’re pleased with the success of this program and how quickly this got up operationally. We’ve put out more money in these SBA loans than in the last 10 years of SBA. So I want to thank all the banks that have worked really hard. We knew that when we passed this originally, if there was full takeout, we wouldn’t have enough money. That’s why we’ve worked with Congress for more money and this is going to… We’ve already impacted about 30 million workers. There’ll be a lot more. So we look forward to this having a big impact on the economy.
<10:33>
Sure, we worked with the White House on this. There were actually much more onerous restrictions in the SBA program. There were people who had misdemeanors that weren’t allowed to access the program. It was much longer than five years, and we very much because of the criminal reform legislation that was passed and the work that’s been done in the White House by Jared and others, we specifically designed the program and the five years was significantly shorter than what had been done before. So we had already taken that into account. <crosstalk 00:11:04>.
<11:03>
For now we’re not going to do that, but I want to just emphasize, we did take this into account. There were a lot of people that wouldn’t have access previously and we changed those regulations.
<11:30>
First of all, I very much appreciate the president’s support for phase four. He put out a tweet as the president said, we would look forward to phase four. It would be infrastructure. The president’s been talking about infrastructure since the campaign. Roads, bridges, broadband, especially broadband now to rural America is very important. We’ve talked about incentives for restaurants, sports, entertainment because these businesses have been impacted. The president has talked multiple times about a payroll tax cut. And we’ve also, we’re talking about in the case of states, we’ve heard from the governors and the fiscal issues of the states.
<12:07>
I think phase four will most likely be what we need. I think based upon what we’re seeing and the reopening of the economy and the amount of money we’re putting in and working with the federal reserve on 133 I think you’re going to see a lot of liquidity and we look forward to business rebounding, especially later this summer.
<12:33>
We would expect is is the last traunch, but obviously we can always reconsider that. But this is a lot of money going out. Again, let me just be clear. It’s another $310 billion here and a another $300 billion of loans. That’s over $600 billion putting into small businesses, which are the backbone of the economy. 50% of the private payroll.
<12:59>
It’s premature for us to comment what the cost is. We’ll work with Congress on that and we’ll consider it. Infrastructure can be a big investment.
<13:17>
We have independent oversight. We supported in the last legislation. Let me be very clear. We have a new inspector general. The president has already picked someone for that position. We look forward to the person being confirmed. We have an oversight committee of Congress that many of them have already been appointed. And let me just say, we put up last week for full transparency. We have no obligation to do this. We put up, you can go to treasury.gov, full transparency on the money that had been sent out on the PPP across states showing all the big lenders, how it was distributed. No one lender did more than 4%. showed the businesses.
<13:54>
So again, the president and I very much believe in full transparency. We’re spending a lot of money and we want to make sure that it’s done effectively and fairly.
<14:12>
Well, we’ve been working around the clock. I think there’s been very good bipartisan support to get this done. The Congress is coming together understanding the importance of this. And we’ve been working around the clock for days. So this is important legislation. It was a lot. We spoke to a lot of people. Mark Meadows has been fantastic, as I said, it’s great to have him here in the White House. I couldn’t have done this without him working on this with me and the president and vice president had been available to us around the clock. So this was a big team effort.
<14:47>
Absolutely. Absolutely. We couldn’t have done this today without unanimous consent and the Democrats being on board and we look forward to this being passed on a bipartisan basis tomorrow. This is a real example of the country coming together to fight this virus.
<15:06>
Again, I think we’re not at the point of designing that. Like every other bill, we will work with senators on both sides on a bipartisan basis. I can tell you there’s a lot of support, particularly for things like broadband and especially what’s going on today. But the president has talked about… I was on the campaign with the president, we’ve been talking about bridges and tunnels and rebuilding this country for years. So the president wants to make a big investment in this.
<15:49>
So we’re in the process of putting out guidance. That part was really designed for national security companies that are either major suppliers to the Department of Defense or companies that have top secret clearance. So that national security provision was very clear when we did that. The president has asked me to work with the Secretary of Energy. Obviously the energy business is very important to us. This has national security issues but different. And we look forward to both looking at what existing capabilities we have. And that will be something we may need to go back to Congress and get additional funding for.
<16:32>
A completely different situation. What you have with the airlines is we had a very, very good airline industry. Because of the virus, they basically shut down. We have a situation now with the oil business partially because of the virus. For less demand. But partially also because of too much supply. But the president is determined we want to maintain our energy independence and the president has asked me to look at all of our options and we’re doing that. Obviously it’s a pretty extraordinary situation where you saw the front month of oil futures trade negative.
<17:23>
Interesting, but way too early to consider that. Whatever we do, we’ll do on a bipartisan basis. The president has listened to the governors. I’ve had the opportunity to be on multiple video conference calls with the president and the vice president. We’re reaching out to a lot of people. There’s a lot of states that have been impacted, but way too early to figure out that level of design.
<17:56>
Well, you used the word manipulate. I’m going to give people the benefit of the doubt. Again, we’re going to put up very clear guidance so that people understand what the certification is, what it means if you’re a big company. Again, there is a provision for where there are multiple affiliates that people can access this. But the intent was not for companies that have access to plenty of liquidity and other sources. And, again, if to the extent these companies didn’t understand this and they repaid the loans, that will be okay and if not, there’ll be potentially other consequences.
<18:33>
Again, you can look at the certifications there, they’re quite significant.
<18:43>
Well, I can tell you the PPP so far is over 30 million jobs. And again, that doesn’t account for other money that we’ve sent out. And again, we’re very pleased. The direct deposits have gone out. We’ve started sending out the checks. We’re also going to be supplementing our capability and sending prepaid debit cards so we can get money out quickly to people.
<19:02>
… prepaid debit card so we can get money out quickly to people. So everything that the President has had us working on is providing significant stability in the economy while we’re dealing with this difficult time, when, for medical reasons, we’ve closed down major parts of the economy. Thank you very much.
<19:15>
Thank you <crosstalk 00:19:18>.
