<52:45>
Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. As you announced, we are very pleased that we are ahead of schedule on delivering the economic impact payments. These were what was known as the checks in the mail that we want to deliver in direct deposit. This is ahead of schedule. We started processing those last Friday. We expect that over 80 million hardworking Americans will get the direct deposit by this Wednesday. We know how important that is to all of those hardworking Americans, many of which are at home, not working at the moment.
<53:20>
If you do not receive them by Wednesday, on Wednesday, we will be launching at irs.gov, click on irs.gov, go to “Get your payment.” If you filed a tax return in 2018 or ’19, have that information available. You’ll be able to ID yourself. You’ll be able to put in your direct deposit information, and within several days, we will automatically deposit the money into your account. We want to do as much of this electronically as we can. It’s very important in this day and age. It’s more secure, and you don’t have to go to the bank.
<53:56>
If you are a social security beneficiary, you do not need to do anything. You will get a direct deposit. If you have not filed and did not need to file a 2018 and ’19 return, you can go to irs.gov now, and enter your information and authenticate yourself. Again, we are very pleased that that is ahead of schedule.
<54:18>
I’d also like to announce the progress we’re making on the new SBA program, the PPP. Let me just remind everybody, this is a brand new program that is now one week old. We have distributed and confirmed 230 billion of loans to over 4,600 lenders participating. That is multiples and multiples of anything that the SBA has ever done in one year before. I especially want to thank the broad-based community banks that are participating. Again, over 4,600 banks. If you haven’t had your loan processed, you will get it processed this week. As the president said, we’ve gone back to Congress and asked them for more money to make sure that every business has access to this.
<55:08>
Let me also comment for the states. We are distributing out half the money this week to the states. That’s a week ahead of time. We’ll deliver the other half of the money to the states next week.
<55:19>
Then let me just finally comment, we’ve been working very closely with the Federal Reserve. Last week, we announced expanded facilities and new facilities that total $2.3 trillion of liquidity. In particular, I’d just like to highlight a main street lending facility that will be for companies between one worker and 10,000 people, so mid-size businesses. Also, a municipal facility for states and local governments to be able to access funds, given the shortages that they have. With that, I’m happy to answer any questions.
<56:24>
The president’s view, and the vice president’s, and my view is this was a bipartisan program. This SBA program, it wasn’t a Republican program, it wasn’t a Democrat program. It was a bipartisan program. We’ve committed to small businesses. We should top up that program now. I know the Democrats want to talk about more money for hospitals and states. Right now we’re just sending the money out to the hospitals and states. They haven’t come close to using that money.
<56:50>
I know the president and vice president have said, once we get the SBA done, we can go into a another funding bill. The president’s talked about potentially adding infrastructure and other things. We think there is a likelihood we will need more money. We will sit down and try to get a bipartisan bill. But this is important we deliver on small businesses. 50% of the people work for small businesses.
<57:22>
Yeah. Well, because we don’t want to run out of money. We’ve used about 220 billion of the 350 billion. We don’t want to run out of that money. We don’t want to create panics that people won’t get it. That’s why we want to top that up, and we’ve asked for another 250 billion for that program.
<57:40>
Again, let me just remind you, every dollar we spend in this program, we save a dollar of unemployment insurance. Even though we’re asking for 250 billion, it really won’t cost that much.
<58:07>
Well, of course there’s economic risks in both directions. We reviewed with the president today a very broad list of over a hundred business people that are going to help advise the president on what needs to be done to reopen the economy. We want to make sure, and again, the combination of economic impact payments, small business payments, enhanced unemployment insurance. The president made very clear, we want to make sure that hardworking Americans have liquidity while we wait to reopen the government.
<58:41>
I’ve had discussions with the president. I know he’s considering it. I believe he’s going to make a decision later in the week.
<58:50>
My advice is as soon as it’s ready to open, and based upon the medical professionals… Again, we’re working very closely with the president and outside business leaders to develop a plan.
<01:00:05>
One other-
<01:15:52>
They haven’t been invited yet. We just reviewed the names with the President today <crosstalk 01:15:55>.
<01:15:57>
Yes. Basically there’s vertical, so every single area of the economy, we want it to be represented.
<01:16:12>
Well, I think there’s always things. So we’re working with Larry Kudlow. We have-
<01:16:16>
We have economic plans for every single part of the economy. Obviously in the case of the oil industry, they’ve been hit especially hard because you’ve had both the supply issue and you’ve had the demand issue.
<01:16:33>
So I’m pleased to say we’ve worked very hard. I think as you probably have seen, we put out a press release that we have now had discussions with almost all the airlines. I’ve personally had discussions with all the major airline CEOs. We specifically created an exception for small airlines that we could process very quickly and I think you’ll see, very quickly, decisions coming out. I’m very pleased with the discussion we’ve had.
<01:17:02>
Yes.
<01:17:25>
Okay. So again, let me just comment. Congress, on a bipartisan basis, approved an unprecedented amount of money to help American workers and American business because it was no fault of their own that business was closed down. We have been very diligently executing on that. Everybody said it was going to take months to get people money. We are executing very quickly. We created a whole new SBA program in a week. Our job right now is to execute the 2.3 billion, which we can add several trillion dollars with the Fed.
<01:17:59>
The one area we are particularly concerned about is the small business program. Quite frankly, it’s even more incredibly popular and successful than we anticipated. So the President wants to be very clear. We have money for that and once we get done with that, we will review with the President. If there is more money that needs to be to support this economy, to support hardworking Americans, we will work with Congress to get that in time.
<01:18:25>
So Phase Four, the President has talked about infrastructure for a long period of time. We’ve talked about to the extent that the hospitals need more money because of the medical issues, we’ll monitor that. We want to make sure there are incentives for restaurants, entertainment, people to get back to those types of things. So we’ll be looking at very specifically provisions to stimulate parts of the economy. Some of them may be money issues, some of them may be regulatory issues.
<01:22:48>
Not small casinos, but there are such things as small taverns and restaurants that have literally small gaming things, and we are coming out with some additional guidance on that. But I want to be clear, it’s not small casinos.
<01:23:04>
Yes.
<01:23:11>
Yes.
<01:23:14>
Sure. So I think I commented on this a week or so ago. We had a sub committee task force at FSOC that specifically studied this issue. We have all the appropriate people on it. Ginnie Mae has automatically taken some action. We’ve had conversations with the FHFA as to what they’re going to do for Fannie and Freddie. And we’ve said that to the extent they need certain authorities from the treasury, we will accommodate that. So we’re very aware of the issue. Quite frankly, we’ve been studying this issue way before COVID and had concerns about some of these non-bank servicers not being well-capitalized, but we’re going to make sure that the market functions properly.
<01:24:24>
I think our expectation has always been this is COVID related. Some people have a rather broad view of what COVID related is because it has impacted almost every single business. I think we’ve, the President has talked about the Kennedy Center, which is a good institution. Obviously that was not the major priority of the bill, but they were hit with COVID related. So, but no, the President instructed we want to be very specific in the next bill, it’s COVID related items.
<01:25:18>
Let me be clear. I had nothing to do with the China ban. I wasn’t on the task force at the time. I’m not even sure I was … I think I was traveling at the time, but I never had any … I was not part of … I did become very active in after the China ban, but that report in the New York Times was not accurate. I was not part of the task force at that time and I was not involved. Matter of fact, I think I may have been traveling.
<01:25:57>
Again, that is the PPP. The PPP is basically sending money to small business, 50% of American workers, to keep those people paid and it’s the most efficient way. Every dollar, as I said, we do through that, it’s one less dollar of unemployment and more importantly, we want those people to be associated with the business so as soon as the President is ready to open up the economy, those businesses are together. We don’t want those businesses to fall apart. That’s why this is such a successful program <crosstalk 00:22:26>-
<01:26:47>
So some of them are and some of the states aren’t, and we encourage … We’re working with the states to try to update their computers, but it’s a long haul. <crosstalk 01:26:55> thank you. Thank you Mr. President.
