<08:13>
Thank you, Mr. President. I’m beyond humbled to be here today. My name is TJ Kim and I’m a sophomore at the Landon School in Bethesda, Maryland. A little over a month ago, I turned 16 when, due to Coronavirus, my school year and my lacrosse season were effectively over. All I had left was my flight training. Ever since I was nine, it’s been my dream to attend the Naval Academy and become a fighter pilot in the Navy, so I talked to my dad about ways that I could continue my flight training while serving the community at the same time. We came up with operation SOS, meaning Supplies Over the Skies. In my home state of Virginia, I found that there are seven critical access hospitals serving the rural communities around them and I realized that while every hospital is hurting for tier one PPEs, it was the rural hospitals that were often forgotten about, so I wanted to do something to help and bless them.
<09:02>
I’ve flown four Operation SOS missions so far to Luray Caverns, Winchester, the highlands of Hot Springs, and the Northern neck of Topping. I’ve sourced and delivered 8,000 medical gloves, 2,000 head covers, 1,500 shoe covers, 400 masks, as well as protective eyewear, isolation gowns, hand sanitizers, and disinfectant sprays. The response has been amazing. Throughout my journey, I’ve learned two lessons. First, that it takes a community to serve the community. What I mean is that I’m blessed by an incredible community that includes my family, my teachers and peers at Landon, my flight school, my neighborhood, and my church. It’s been their support that has allowed me to complete each operation SOS mission successfully. Second, I’ve learned that you are never too young to think about how to serve others in times of need.
<09:51>
Mr. President, you once said that America is the place where anyone can rise. And today there are youth everywhere in America rising up to help sew masks, deliver groceries to the elderly, and write thank-you letters to our frontline workers. And when I think about them, I realized just how undeserving I am to be here. Mr. President, I’m so honored by this award and I also don’t know how to repay you. Let me make you this promise instead, as long as there’s a need and as long as I can find the PPEs and fly them to rural hospitals, I’m going to do it.
<10:22>
I promise to continue to rise and be of service to my campus, my community, my Commonwealth, and my country. Thank you.
<10:32>
Oh, he’s right there. In the back.
<10:47>
Thank you, sir.
<22:03>
Thank you very much.
