<01:12:38>
The stories are incredibly moving about what health care workers who are doing every day. It’s not just that they’re going back into the hospital. In places like New York, in New Jersey, earlier than that, and in Washington state and California where this first began. It’s not just that they’re providing care to people, but because of the nature of how contagious the coronavirus is, they’re also supplementing for family.
<01:13:11>
I mean, that’s what gets to me. When I hear the stories that understandably in nursing homes and in hospitals, they’re restricting visitors, and they should, to prevent the spread of the virus to be brought into the hospital or to be brought out. And so to hear the stories of health care workers who are holding up an iPhone while someone who’s critically ill with the coronavirus may well be saying their last goodbyes to their family, and then to be there in those moments.
<01:13:46>
Our healthcare workers are, they’re not just doctors and nurses today. They’re supplementing for family for people all across the country. And I just think, tomorrow’s Palm Sunday, it’s Holy week in the great Christian tradition, and I have people ask me from time to time, send me an email or on the many conference calls that we have, they said, “What can we be praying about?” And my first thought is with the families who have lost loved ones and the patients who are struggling with coronavirus.
<01:14:21>
But during this very special week, I just encourage people to pray for our healthcare workers. Pray for them and their families. They are really the hands and feet every day, not just of healthcare, but at the heart of the American people. And we are all grateful for them every hour of the day.
<01:34:07>
Well, you’ve heard from the experts what our task force has heard. It’s going to be a difficult week for the American people. You will see testing increased around the country and so cases are going to continue to rise across America. Before I give a few facts relevant to an earlier question about ventilators, let me add my voice to what the President just said and what all the physicians who’ve spoken has said. Even though we see the losses rising in the days ahead, do not be discouraged because there is evidence across the country that Americans have been putting the social distancing and mitigation into practice, and it is making a difference. We are seeing it in the new cases that are being reported.
<01:35:03>
Because remember, families that experience loss up to this day and in in the next week have a loved one who contracted the coronavirus in most cases more than two weeks ago. In many cases before social distancing and mitigation efforts were put into effect. So we want to encourage you, believe in the President’s coronavirus guidelines for America. Go to coronavirus.gov. Print them off again. Put them on the refrigerator and remind yourself to put them into practice.
<01:35:44>
On the subject of ventilators, if I can amplify the point the President made, our team at FEMA is doing a remarkable job working with governors, state health officials and local hospitals, particularly focused on our priority areas. We will refer to the New York Metro area, which includes New Jersey and Connecticut. We’re focused on the New Orleans Metro area in Louisiana. We’re focusing on Detroit. We’re focusing on Chicago. These are the areas where we see the significant rise in cases, and we are surging supplies, specifically ventilators, but all personal protective equipment from FEMA to those areas.
<01:36:33>
Just to give you a couple of examples, I spoke to governors in New York, New Jersey, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Maryland today, alone. In those cases, Governor Cuomo is actually assessing all of the available ventilators. We’ve sent 4,400 ventilators already to New York. As has already been referenced, they’re going to receive a shipment of over a thousand from overseas. Allow me to say, as I told her personally today, the governor of Oregon, Governor Kate Brown, her unilateral decision to send 140 ventilators because they felt Oregon today is in a place where they could give those ventilators to New York. To me, it was in the very highest American tradition of loving your neighbor. When I talked to Governor Cuomo, Mr. President, he actually told me they never asked Oregon for the ventilators and Governor Brown hadn’t even called him to tell him that she was doing that.
<01:37:34>
It really is remarkable. When I talked to Governor Hogan today and President and I will be speaking to all of America’s governors on Monday again. I told him how inspired I was and how he ought to spread the word to other governors in areas where they can spare resources to be joining with us at the federal level and providing them to states at the point of the need.
<01:37:55>
But just a few for instances. As we track New Jersey, as I told Governor Phil Murphy, we deployed 200 ventilators to New Jersey today. Louisiana, where we’re monitoring literally hour by hour what’s taking place in New Orleans with some encouraging news, but still great challenges. Yesterday you heard the President say that we deployed 330,000 gowns that had been delivered to the public health systems and hospitals there. 200 ventilators.
<01:38:25>
I spoke to governor Charlie Baker today and was able to inform him. We’re watching Boston area very closely. 100 ventilators are deploying today. I spoke to Governor Gretchen Whitmer today. Detroit is experiencing a significant number of cases. We’re watching it carefully. Today FEMA directed 300 of ventilators to Michigan. Again, as the President said, we’re all working our hearts out. But what I want to say to American families and what I want to say to healthcare workers is that we are going to identify the resources, leave no stone unturned, and we are going to focus resources on those areas in the order that they emerge.
<01:39:15>
Now, the last thought is back on mitigation. We are hoping that we do not see other major cities in the country experience what Seattle experienced, what greater New York city area’s experiencing, what New Orleans is experiencing. That’s all in the hands of the American people today. So I just want to encourage you, coronavirus.gov. Put into practice the President’s coronavirus guidelines, and you will do your part to save lives, protect the American people, and ensure that we will have the resources to meet this moment wherever the need should arise.
